Abstract
Theoretical and experimental studies of two different discharge modes in asymmetric dielectric barrier discharges in argon at atmospheric pressure have been performed. The first mode appears to be the well-known filamentary microdischarge with non-striated positive column whereas the second mode is characterized by discharge instabilities and the appearance of striations. Both experiment and model calculations predict a transition from the first mode to the second mode when the applied voltage amplitude is increased above approximately 2 kV. The reliability of the employed fluid model is confirmed by comparison of the current-voltage characteristics obtained by model calculations and measurements for different applied voltage amplitudes. The results of the model calculations point out that in the second discharge mode the ionization of excited argon atoms prevents the total recombination of charge carriers between two subsequent discharge events. This leads to the occurrence of the memory from one discharge to the following one, which plays an important role in mode transition.

Introduction
Besides the fact that dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) are of high technological importance in many applications, their physics and chemistry is very interesting from the physical point of view. In particular, the formation of structures and instabilities as well as the study of volume and surface processes is an issue of high complexity. It is well known that different discharge modes can occur in DBDs at atmospheric pressure including diffuse, filamentary and mixed modes [1][2][3]. In contrast to the typical filamentary regime, which is characterized by a large number of individual discharge channels, the plasma of a diffuse barrier discharge covers the entire electrode area uniformly [2]. Two different diffuse modes can occur, namely, the atmospheric pressure Townsend discharge and the atmospheric pressure glow discharge [2,[4][5][6]. The mentioned discharge modes occur in dependence on the cell geometry [7], amplitude and frequency of the applied voltage [2,8,9], gas composition [2,3] and gas pressure [1], respectively. Quite complex discharge dynamics can occur when periodic or even chaotic switching between different discharge modes takes place. Phenomena like period multiplication, mixed-mode oscillations and transitions to chaotic states in electrical discharges in gases have been observed in experimental [10][11][12][13][14] as well as theoretical [15][16][17][18][19] investigations. In most cases, a detailed analysis of the discharge properties is necessary to explain such behaviour.
Recently, the alternate occurrence of two different discharge modes in a DBD in atmospheric pressure argon has been observed experimentally [20,21]. The first mode appears to be a normal filamentary microdischarge with nonstriated plasma channel known from the literature [22][23][24], while the second mode is characterized by a comparatively low discharge current exhibiting a multi-peak structure and a striated positive column. Figure 1 represents typical pictures of non-striated (a) and striated (b) microdischarges in argon. Unlike striations in low-pressure plasmas [25,26], striated structures in discharges at atmospheric pressure are rarely observed and their generation mechanisms are not fully understood [20,21,[27][28][29][30][31]. It should be noted that the appearance of the striated structure is not related to the presence of the metallic electrode in asymmetric barrier discharge arrangements, where one electrode is covered by a dielectric. Indeed, in the case of symmetric barrier discharges, where both electrodes are covered by a dielectric, the striated structure has been found as well [21]. However, the appearance of striated microdischarges in the symmetric setup was rare and unstable [21].
In the present paper the two discharge modes are analysed in more detail with the aid of measurements and fluid modelling describing self-consistently the spatiotemporal development of microdischarges in the DBD arrangement considered. The experimental studies were performed using the same equipment as published in [21]. A brief description of the experimental setup is given in section 2.
For the theoretical description of the discharge a fluid-Poisson model was adapted. Due to the much higher computational efficiency of fluid models compared to a kinetic description, the former are preferred for modelling of atmospheric pressure discharges. In the literature, global [32] as well as spatially one-dimensional [33,34], two-dimensional [35][36][37] and three-dimensional [38] fluid descriptions are considered for modelling of DBDs.
Two-and threedimensional descriptions provide the possibility to study both the axial and the radial discharge structure. But simple reaction kinetics, taking into account the most relevant excitation and ionization processes, only, has to be applied then to keep the computing time within a feasible limit. The advantage of global and spatially one-dimensional models is that all relevant collision and radiation processes can be taken into account without increasing the computing time too much. Therefore, a one-dimensional fluid description is preferred here which allows both the analysis of the axial plasma structure and of the reaction kinetics. Details of the fluid model are given in section 3.
Measurements as well as model calculations were performed for a wide range of applied voltage amplitudes. It is analysed in detail how the amplitude of the applied voltage influences the basic characteristics and the stability of the discharge and which effects give rise to the multi-peak discharge mode that has been observed in the experiment. The experimental and theoretical results for the currentvoltage characteristics of the discharge under consideration are compared and discussed in section 4.1. Furthermore, the spatiotemporal evolution of particle densities, electric field and ionization processes is investigated in section 4.2 with the assistance of the modelling results.

Experimental setup
The experimental investigations were performed in a sealed glass chamber as shown in figure 2. The mutual distance of the pure metal (stainless steel) and alumina covered electrode was d = 1.5 mm. The metal electrode was energized by high voltage and the alumina covered electrode was grounded. The thickness of the dielectric layer was = 0.5 mm. The curvature of both electrode tips was 2 mm. The sealed glass chamber was evacuated to high vacuum (10 -5 mbar), heated to 700 K for several hours (baked out to reduce residual gaseous impurities) and then filled with argon gas of purity of 99.9999% to atmospheric pressure. In order to ensure direct comparability with the model neglecting gas flow, the experiments were performed without gas flow as described in [21]. The barrier discharge was generated by a 60 kHz sinusoidal voltage using a Softal AT6003 transformer, QSC Powerlight 9.0 PFC amplifier, and Toellner TOE 7711A function generator. The voltage and current characteristics were measured by Tektronix probes P6015A and CT-1, respectively. All signals were recorded by a Tektronix TDS 3052 oscilloscope. An intensified charge-coupled device (iCCD) DiCam Pro 25 SVGA camera was used in combination with a Questar QM 100BK7 far-field microscope to study the two-dimensional structure of a single microdischarge simultaneously with identical current pulse measurements.

Fluid description of microdischarges


Basic relations
For the theoretical description of the spatiotemporal development of microdischarges, a time-and space-dependent hydrodynamic model was employed taking into account the spatially one-dimensional discharge geometry depicted in figure 3. The one-dimensional description considering the axial component x of the plasma, only, assumes in a first approach that the main characteristics of the discharge are not influenced by radial effects.
The nonlinear system of partial differential equations comprises the continuity equations
for particle densities n s of considered species s listed in table 1, the electron energy balance equation
determining the spatiotemporal evolution of the electron energy density w e and Poisson's equation providing selfconsistently the electric potential φ and the electric field E(x, t) = -∂ x φ(x, t) according to
where ε 0 denotes the permittivity of free space and q s is the particle charge. The particle fluxes s and the electron energy flux Q e in the x-direction are given in drift-diffusion approximation by [39] s (x, t) = -∂ x D s (x, t)n s (x, t)
)n e (x, t) -be (x, t)E(x, t)n e (x, t).
(
Here, D s and b s denote the diffusion coefficient and the mobility of species s, respectively and De and be are the diffusion coefficient and the mobility for energy transport of electrons. The function sgn(q s ) gives the sign of the particle charge q s . The changes of particle densities and electron energy density due to collisional and radiation processes are included by means of the source terms S s in the particle balance equation ( 1) and the term Se in the electron energy balance equation (2). The first term on the right-hand side of (2) denotes the power input from the electric field.

Reaction kinetics model
To achieve an adequate description of atmospheric pressure argon plasmas, atomic and molecular argon ions as well as seven excited atomic and four excited molecular argon states were taken into account.  [40].
The reaction kinetic scheme takes into account 70 electron collision processes. Besides elastic collisions contributing directly to the electron energy balance equation ( 2), it includes excitation, deexcitation, ionization and recombination processes with rate coefficients depending on the mean electron energy ε = w e /n e . In addition, 20 radiation and 24 heavy particle collision processes are considered. A list of all processes is given in the appendix in tables A1 and A2.
The mean energy dependent transport coefficients for electrons as well as the rate coefficients of elastic collisions, exciting, de-exciting and ionizing collision processes have been obtained by solution of the stationary, spatially homogeneous electron Boltzmann equation in a convergent multi-term approach using a modified version of the method presented in [41]. It has been adapted to take into account nonconservative electron collision processes. More details on the particular form of the coefficients as well as graphical representation are provided in [42]. In order to avoid numerical instabilities, the common simplified expressions [43] be = 5  3 εb e , (6)
3 εD e (7) are used for the electron energy transport coefficients. The mobility of atomic and molecular argon ions is determined as function of the reduced electric field E/N during the model calculations using the data given in [44] and [45], respectively, where N is the total gas density. Furthermore, it is assumed that the ion diffusion coefficients D i satisfy Einstein's relation [46]
where k B is the Boltzmann constant, e 0 denotes the elementary charge and T g is the gas temperature which is assumed to be constant during the discharge event. To estimate the maximum effect caused by gas heating during one discharge pulse, a balance equation for the neutral gas temperature neglecting temperature loss due to heat transfer was solved. It was found that due to the short duration of the microdischarges the maximum increase of temperature in a single filament is smaller than 0.5 K. For metastable argon atoms the diffusion coefficient is set to ND m = 1.7×10 18 s -1 cm -1 in accordance with [44]. The diffusive transport of excited particles in radiative argon states has been neglected due to their short lifetimes.

Boundary conditions
In order to solve the system of partial differential equations ( 1)-( 3) taking into account the drift-diffusion fluxes ( 4) and ( 5), an adequate set of boundary conditions has to be added. For the heavy particle densities as well as for the particle and energy densities of electrons, boundary conditions according to Hagelaar et al [36,47] have been applied. For heavy particles h with the mass m h the boundary condition applied at the electrodes takes the form
Here, ν is equal to -1 at x = 0 (powered electrode) and equal to 1 at the dielectric surface in front of the grounded electrode located at x = 2 mm. In accordance with [48], the reflection coefficient r h for ions is set to 5 × 10 -4 and 5 × 10 -3 at the metallic and the dielectric covered electrode surface, respectively. For metastable argon atoms the reflection coefficient is set to 0.3. Boundary condition (9) takes into account the partial reflexion of particles considering a drift-diffusion flux as well as a thermal flux with thermal velocity
The boundary conditions for electrons having the mass m e look almost the same. In addition to partial reflection, the emission of secondary electrons due to ion bombardment at the walls with the secondary electron emission coefficient γ has been considered in the form
The particle and energy thermal velocities of electrons are approximated as
and
respectively, assuming a Maxwellian energy distribution function at the boundaries with k B T e = 2ε/3. In equation ( 12), εγ = 2 eV denotes the mean energy of secondary electrons.
The electron reflection coefficient is set to 0.3 at the metallic surface and it takes the value 0.7 at the dielectric [48].
Approximately, the secondary electron emission coefficient for argon is 0.07 at metallic surfaces [44,49] and 0.02 at an alumina covered surface [50]. Recently it has been pointed out that due to charge accumulation the secondary electron emission coefficient of a dielectric changes during different stages of the discharge [51]. However, the accurate description of this effect is an ambitious task and left for future investigations.
At the powered electrode located at x = 0 a sinusoidal voltage V a is applied in accordance with the experimental setup. The effect of surface charge accumulation on top of the alumina covered grounded electrode is described by Gauss law [35,36]
for the space-charge field E and the electric field E D inside the dielectric. Since charge carriers are almost absent within the dielectric [52], the electric field E D is determined by means of the Laplace equation
Equation ( 15) is used as boundary condition for the electric potential at x = d. The surface charge density σ results from particle currents striking the dielectric. It is incorporated by the equation
which includes the legitimate assumption that the surface charge density does not diffuse along the surface on time scales relevant for this study [53].

Spatiotemporal discretization
The coupled system of partial differential equations ( 1)-( 5), equipped with the boundary conditions discussed in section 3.3, is discretized in time and space by means of finite-difference methods. Spatial discretization of the driftdiffusion equations for charge carrier densities as well as the electron energy balance equation (2) has been performed by an exponential scheme based on the Scharfetter-Gummel method [54]. The discretization scheme has been adapted to treat diffusion of electrons in the consistent form -∂ x (D e n e ) rather than neglecting the contribution of thermal diffusion -n e ∂ x D e . The central-difference method [55] has been used for spatial discretization of Poisson's equation as well as for the balance equations of metastable argon atoms. For the temporal discretization an iterative time-stepping scheme has  been applied. Further details on the discretization scheme considered are given in [56].
The size of the time step is adaptively determined to keep the relative discretization error in the mean electron energy below the tolerance of 10 -4 . The model calculations have been performed using 900 non-equidistant intervals for the spatial grid, which is quadratically refined towards the boundaries to resolve steep gradients in front of the electrodes.

Results and discussion
Measurements and model calculations were performed for applied voltage amplitudes V 0 between 1.5 and 2.5 kV. The driving frequency f = 60 kHz corresponding to a period of T = 16.7 µs and the argon pressure of 1 atm were not changed throughout the investigations. For the model calculations a constant gas temperature of 300 K has been assumed.

Current-voltage characteristics
In order to explain the occurrence of the different discharge modes observed in the asymmetric DBD arrangement under consideration, the influence of the voltage amplitude on the current-voltage characteristics has been investigated. Figure 4 represents measured data in phase space of applied voltage and discharge current for different voltage amplitudes V 0 . It becomes obvious that for low applied voltages near the burning voltage of about 1.5 kV the discharge dynamics is deterministic that way that the discharge ignites at virtually fixed values of the externally applied voltage. The discharge current is characterized by strong current peaks during the discharge events and small values of the order of the displacement current throughout the remaining time. This normal discharge mode is well known from literature [22]. Between 1.6 and 2 kV a transition in the discharge dynamics takes place. When the applied voltage is increased, the discharges become more and more unstable. Microdischarges ignite no longer at distinct values of the applied voltage, and current pulses with several maxima and minima are observed. Furthermore, the positive column in this discharge mode is characterized by the appearance of striations as discussed in [21]. Similar transition to quasi-periodic and chaotic discharge modes in DBDs are investigated in [14,17,18]. However, the mechanisms leading to mode transition and the observed striated structures are not yet fully understood [14].
In order to demonstrate that fluid modelling is able to capture the experimentally observed mode transition, 0 10 20 30   calculations using the measured voltage course V a as input have been performed. Calculated and measured results for the temporal evolution of the discharge current at voltage amplitudes of 1.5, 2 and 2.5 kV are directly compared in figure 5. At V 0 = 1.5 kV the model predicts the same stable discharge dynamics as observed in the experiment. In positive half-periods, where the dielectric electrode is the cathode (M+D-), even the quantitative agreement between model prediction and experiment is excellent. In negative half-periods, where the metallic electrode is the cathode (M-D+) the model overestimates the amplitude of the discharge current peaks by a factor of two. This is due to the fact that the surface area of a hemisphere with 2 mm radius (curvature of electrode tips) has been used to estimate the discharge current from the calculated current density. In M+D-mode, the footprint of the discharge at the dielectric covered electrode spreads widely over the electrode surface whereas in M-D+ mode only a fraction of the surface area is covered by the discharge [21].
At 2 and 2.5 kV an increase of the discharge current between subsequent discharge events takes place. It is worth noting that this effect results from an increase of the plasma current and is not caused by a growth of the displacement current ranging between 0.1 and 0.2 mA. The comparison of experimental and modelling results points out that the qualitative change in the current form is principally captured by the model.
In order to exclude effects resulting from noise of the measured applied voltage, the further analysis of the discharge characteristics by means of model calculations is performed by applying the sinusoidal voltage V a = V 0 sin(2πt/T ) at the powered electrode. Modelling results of the periodic behaviour for V 0 = 1.5, 2 and 2.5 kV are represented in figure 6. In the upper part of this figure the applied voltage V a , the voltage drop across the gas gap V g and the memory voltage V m = V a -V g , which is the voltage drop across the dielectric layer caused by the charge accumulated on the dielectric due to the previous discharge [4], are shown. The lower part illustrates the temporal evolution of the discharge current density and the surface charge density accumulated on the dielectric surface. For all voltage amplitudes, the modelling results exhibit a reasonable transient behaviour. The magnitude of the gap voltage increases until the ignition voltage of approximately 1.5 kV is reached and a discharge event takes place. The ignition voltage predicted by the model is in good agreement with the experiment. A single discharge event per half-period is found which is characterized by a strong increase of the magnitude of the current density. Depending on the polarity, positive or negative charges are accumulated at the dielectric surface and the magnitude of the gap voltage decreases strongly. These mechanisms lead to an immediate quenching of the discharge. The further increase of the magnitude of the applied voltage V a and of the gap voltage V g after the discharge event causes the generation of new charge carriers. Hence the discharge current magnitude increases between subsequent discharge events for V 0 2 kV in accordance with experimental findings.
The corresponding discharge dynamics in the phase space of gap voltage and discharge current density is shown in figure 7. Starting from V g = 0, at first the transient behaviour is very similar for all voltage amplitudes. When the discharge takes place, the magnitude of the discharge current strongly increases and at the same time the gap voltage decreases. Thus, the discharge has a negative differential conductivity and becomes unstable [17,57]. The small differences in the ignition voltage for the different applied voltage amplitudes are caused by memory effects as discussed below.
After the quenching of the first discharge event differences between the discharge dynamics at V 0 = 1.5 kV and the discharges at higher V 0 occur. The insets in figure 7  clear that during the negative half-period the magnitude of the current density of the discharges at V 0 = 2 and 2.5 kV increases again before a change in polarity takes place. The stability of the discharges is again affected by the occurrence of negative differential conductivity. Qualitatively the same behaviour can be observed during the positive half-period for the discharge at V 0 = 2.5 kV. By contrast, the current density of the discharge at V 0 = 1.5 kV does not increase again in both half-periods before the polarity changes and no negative differential conductivity occurs. These findings indicate that the instabilities found in the experiments at V 0 2 kV (see figure 4) are triggered by a negative differential conductivity between two subsequent microdischarges. Experimental and theoretical investigations of similar barrier discharges have pointed out that bifurcation and period-doubling are likely to occur in case of a negative differential conductivity [17,57]. Because of memory effects, the discharge current in a particular period depends strongly on the previous discharge and it is particularly influenced by the surface charge density and the density of charge carriers in the discharge volume [58]. Therefore, it is not to be expected that the experimental observations exhibit exactly the same dynamic behaviour as predicted by the model. In order to analyse the dependence of the observed mode transition on the thickness of the dielectric, additional calculations for different thicknesses were performed. As expected, it was found that the voltage amplitude at which the transition to the unstable mode occurs decreases with decreasing thickness of the dielectric. The decrease of from 0.5 to 0.25 mm causes the occurrence of negative differential conductivity already at V 0 = 1.5 kV.
Furthermore, in the present study it was found that the discharge dynamics at amplitudes in the range from 2 to 2.5 kV is very sensitive with respect to changes in the reaction kinetics of metastable argon atoms Ar[1s 5 ] and Ar[1s 3 ]. In [18,19] model calculations of DBDs in argon at atmospheric pressure using a very simple argon model taking into account direct ionization of ground state atoms only are reported. In these studies bifurcation and period-doubling phenomena have been found. A quite similar behaviour has also been obtained by the present model, if chemo-ionization processes involving the energetically first metastable state Ar[1s 5 ] are considered only, i.e. if the reactions R75 to R80 in table A2 are neglected [59].

Spatiotemporal discharge behaviour
In order to understand the differences in the discharge mechanisms at low and higher amplitudes of the applied voltage the spatiotemporal discharge behaviour obtained by the model calculations for V 0 = 1.5 kV and V 0 = 2.5 kV is analysed. Figure 8 represents the spatiotemporal variation of the electron density n e (x, t) in logarithmic representation in correlation with the temporal course of the current density and the gap voltage during positive current peaks. Note that the instant t 0 is set to the maximum of the current. Qualitatively the same behaviour occurs in the negative half-period. The particular discharge events investigated here are indicated by t 0 in figure 6.
For both amplitudes of the applied voltage considered here a similar spatiotemporal variation of the electron density can be observed from figure 8. With increasing gap voltage the electron density decreases several orders of magnitude in front of the momentary cathode located at x = 1.5 mm. When the gap voltage reaches the ignition voltage the electron density grows strongly in the cathode-fall region but remains almost the same at the area close to the instantaneous anode. At the same time a strong current pulse occurs and at the instant of maximum current density the spatial profile of the electron density allows to detect clearly the cathode-fall region and the positive column, similar to the optical emission observed in the experiment [21]. Immediately after breakdown, the electron density in the positive column increases slightly. This effect is mainly caused by ionization of excited argon states.
Besides the general evolution of the discharge, two essential differences between the discharge behaviour at V 0 = 1.5 kV and that at V 0 = 2.5 kV are pointed out by figure 8. Firstly, it becomes obvious that the plasma 2 ions (+) (c),(d) at the times t = t 0 -1 µs (----) and t = t 0 (--) and applied voltages V 0 = 1.5 kV (left) and V 0 = 2.5 kV (right) (instantaneous anode at x = 0, cathode at x = 1.5 mm). recombination between two subsequent discharge events decreases with increasing voltage amplitude. At V 0 = 1.5 kV the electron density drops several orders of magnitude in more than half of the discharge region. By contrast, at V 0 = 2.5 kV the electron density remains high in more than half of the gap. The full recombination of charge carriers is prevented by a large chemo-ionization rate as discussed below. Because the plasma does not totally recombine between two successive discharges, a memory effect occurs and the characteristics of each discharge event depends strongly on that of the previous one [60]. Therefore, the ignition voltage is not the same at V 0 = 1.5 kV and V 0 = 2.5 kV.
Secondly, figure 8 exhibits that at V 0 = 2.5 kV the second increase of the current density after the current pulse is attended by an increase of the electron density in the cathode-fall region. The occurrence of a second breakdown is just prevented by the decrease of the sinusoidal applied voltage. At V 0 = 1.5 kV no increase of the electron density in the cathode-fall region takes place before the polarity changes.
Since the plasma recombines only partially between subsequent current pulses reignition takes place in a part of the discharge volume, only, as observed recently in theoretical investigations of DBDs in helium [61]. This can readily be seen from the representation of the electric field and the charge carrier densities at the times t 0 -1 µs and t 0 in figure 9. Because the charge carrier densities remain high in front of the instantaneous anode between subsequent discharge events, the electric field remains low in that region while the gap voltage increases (see results at t 0 -1µs). The insets of figures 9(a) and (b) clearly show that the width of the actual gap where the electric field increases becomes smaller with the increase of the voltage amplitude from 1.5 to 2.5 kV. At time t 0 the electric field configuration and the charge carrier densities predicted by the fluid model show similar behaviour for both amplitudes of the applied voltage considered here. The cathode-fall region extends to approximately 60 µm in front of the instantaneous cathode followed by the negative glow region exhibiting a reversal of the electric field at x ≈ 1.4 mm. Towards the momentary anode the electric field as well as the charge carrier densities are spatially modulated but do not exhibit the well defined striations observed in the experiment (see figure 1(b)). A probable reason for that shortcoming is that kinetic effects leading to the formation of striated structures are not captured by the fluid model under consideration.
However, the representation of the ionization rates predicted by the calculations at the instant t 0 of maximum current in figure 10 reveals a possible cause for the occurrence of striations under certain conditions. Figure 10 shows that in the quasi-neutral region in front of the momentary anode the rate of stepwise ionization increases while the rate of electron impact ionization of ground state atoms decreases when the voltage amplitude is raised from 1.5 to 2.5 kV. In the cathode-fall region the electron production is mainly driven by direct ionization in both cases. The appreciable role played by stepwise ionization and chemo-ionization processes in the development of striations is well documented in the literature [25,62,63] and the interplay of direct ionization and ionization processes involving excited particles are a possible reason for the stratification of the discharge channel at higher amplitudes of the applied voltage. In order to explain the observed effect that the charge carrier densities remain large in a part of the discharge volume during the entire temporal evolution, the ionization and recombination rates at x = 0.5 mm are displayed in figure 11. Just before ignition of the discharge recombination of charge carriers in collisions of electrons with molecular ions Ar +  2 + e -→ Ar[2p] + Ar[1p 0 ] (process R68 in table A2) dominates the electron budget. However, due to the long lifetime of metastable argon atoms the chemo-ionization rate remains at a comparatively high level and compensates for the loss of charge carriers to a large extent. Instantaneously with the steep increase of the direct and stepwise ionization rates the discharge ignites, while after the discharge event only chemoionization remains the dominant electron generation process. Again it becomes obvious that the ratio of direct and stepwise ionization rates at the instant of maximum current changes with the increase of the applied voltage amplitude.

Conclusion
The transition between two different discharge modes observed in filamentary DBDs in argon at atmospheric pressure with an increase of the applied voltage amplitude has been analysed by means of experimental and theoretical studies. It has been shown that both the experiments and the model calculations predict a transition from a stable discharge mode characterized by one current peak per half-period to an unstable discharge mode that is characterized by a second increase of the discharge current immediately after breakdown. Mode transition takes place when the amplitude of the applied voltage exceeds approximately 2 kV for the system being considered. The direct comparison between calculated and measured currentvoltage characteristics has pointed out that the spatially one-dimensional fluid model under consideration is able to reproduce main features of the experimental observations in both discharge modes.
The theoretical investigations have revealed that the instabilities observed in the experiment at applied voltages largely exceeding the burning voltage are potentially caused by the occurrence of negative differential conductivity immediately after the first breakdown in each half-period. Furthermore, it has been shown that the high rate of chemoionization during the entire temporal evolution prevents the full  [70]; [67] plasma recombination between subsequent discharge events. Therefore, the characteristics of each breakdown is largely affected by the previous one and reignition takes place in a part of the discharge volume, only. The analysis of the spatiotemporal variation of the charge carriers and the electric field for different amplitudes of the applied voltage has pointed out that the extent of plasma recombination decreases when the voltage amplitude is increased. It has been shown that the role of stepwise ionization during discharge events increases and the importance of direct ionization decreases with the transition from the low voltage mode to the high voltage mode. Even though the striations observed in the experiment cannot be reproduced by the fluid model considered, the interplay of direct ionization and ionization processes involving excited particles have been found to be a possible reason for the striations observed in the experiment under certain conditions. Table A2. Recombination, heavy particle collision and radiative processes considered in the reaction kinetic model. The rate coefficients of two-body collisions are given in units of cm 3 s -1 and those of three-body collisions in units of cm 6 s -1 . Rates of emission are given in units of s -1 ; d denotes the gap width in cm and k B T e = 2ε/(3e 0 ). space-independent lifetimes [78,81]

Index
, l= 2, 4 (A.1) with natural lifetimes τ 4 = 8.6 ns and τ 2 = 2.15 ns according to [82]. The absorption coefficients k 0,l , l = 2, 4 are determined as [78] k 0,l = 2λ 0 2.1τ l g 2 g 1
3/2 ε 0 m e c e 2 0 f 21
where λ 0 is the vacuum wavelength, g 1 and g 2 denote the statistical weights, f 21 is the oscillator strength and c the speed of light.

