Abstract
The pre-phase of the breakdown of pulsed-driven dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) was investigated by fast optical and electrical measurements on double-sided DBDs with a 1 mm gap in a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure. Depending on the pulse width (the pause time between subsequent DBDs), four different breakdown regimes of the following discharge were observed. By systematically reducing the pulse width, the breakdown characteristics could be changed from a single cathode-directed propagation (positive streamer) to simultaneous cathode-and anode-directed propagations (positive and negative streamer) and no propagation at all for sub-μs pulse times. For all cases, different spatio-temporal emission structures in the pre-phase were observed. The experimental results were compared with time-dependent, spatially one-dimensional fluid model calculations. The modelling results confirmed that different pre-ionisation conditions, i.e. considerably high space charges in the volume created by the residual electrons and ions from the previous discharge, are the reason for the observed phenomena.

Introduction
One major question in the investigation and understanding of dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) is the role of memory processes in the inception and development of the discharge. Generally, the behaviour of a DBD is strongly influenced by processes in the so-called Townsend pre-phase, i.e. the time before the actual breakdown occurs [1][2][3][4]. While in sinusoidal-operated DBDs-which is the case for most applications [5]-the pre-phase lasts for at least several hundred nanoseconds, in pulsed-operated DBDs this duration is limited by the rise time of the HV pulse (in our case ≈50 ns for 10 kV pulse amplitude). The pulsed-operation, however, offers an additional electrical control parameter (apart from voltage amplitude and repetition frequency): the pulse width or duty cycle [6,7]. In the context of a pulsed (square wave) operation of DBDs, the pulse width does not refer to the duration of the discharge itself but to the delay between two subsequent discharges. The repetition frequency also influences the DBD behaviour, because a lower repetition frequency results in a reduced overall pre-ionisation, which is independent of the pulse width [8]. The pulse width had a stronger impact on the DBD characteristics, up to changing the breakdown regime from a cathode-directed streamerlike propagation to the occurrence of cathode-and anodedirected streamers (for pulse widths of ≈1 µs) and finally to no propagation at all (for pulse widths of ⩽0.5 ns), as reported in previous works [9,10].
This study analyses the influence of the pulse width on the pre-phase and its consequences for the following breakdown of pulsed-driven DBDs at atmospheric pressure by means of electrical and optical diagnostics accompanied by timedependent, spatially one-dimensional (1D) fluid modelling. A profound explanation for the effects reported in [9,10] is provided.

Experimental set-up and diagnostics
The experimental set-up and diagnostics are schematically shown in figure 1. The double-sided DBD arrangement (1 mm gap) with half-spheric alumina covered electrodes (Al 2 O 3 , ε r ≈ 9) was housed in a Plexiglas cell (volume ≈2.5 cm 3 ) similar to [6,[9][10][11]. The DBDs were operated by positive unipolar square wave pulses with a pulse voltage amplitude of V p = 10 kV at a repetition frequency of 10 kHz (i.e. T = 100 μs, see figure 2(a)). The pulse width t pulse was varied from 50 µs (symmetrical pulse) to 0.2 µs. The steepness of the rising and falling slopes of the high voltage pulses was about 250 V ns -1 specified by the pulse generator (DEI, PVX-4110). The DBDs were simultaneously observed by a fast iCCD camera and a streak camera system connected to a far-field microscope (Questar, QM100). The iCCD camera (Andor, iStar, Δt ⩾ 2 ns, Δx ≈ 2 µm) recorded high resolution images of single and accumulated DBDs as well as their propagation on the electrode surfaces. The streak camera system (Hamamatsu, C5680) delivered the spatio-temporal discharge development along the discharge axis during the rising and falling slopes of the high voltage pulse with high temporal (Δt ⩾ 50 ps) and spatial (Δx ≈ 2 µm) resolution. Both cameras were sensitive in the visible and UV spectral range. For the spectral resolution metal interference filters were inserted in the optical path, i.e. for the second positive system of N 2 (SPS, 0-0 transition: Melles-Griot, CWL 337.1 nm, 3 nm bandwidth) and the first negative system of + N 2 (FNS, 0-0 transition: Melles-Griot, CWL 391.4 nm, 1 nm bandwidth).
In addition, the spatio-temporal SPS emission was recorded for the 10 µs pulse by cross-correlation spectroscopy (CCS or time correlated single photon counting (TCSPC)) in the same diagnostic set-up as described in [4]). Although this method is more sensitive, it is also more time-consuming than the streak camera measurements.
Electrical measurements were performed by fast voltage (Tektronix, P6015A, rise time t 10%-90% = 4.67 ns) and current probes (Tektronix, CT-1, rise time t 10%-90% = 0.35 ns) and recorded with a digital phosphor oscilloscope (Tektronix, DPO 7254C, 2.5 GHz, 40 GS s -1 ).

Results


Experimental results
In figure 2(a), the concept of using the pulse width to set different delays between the discharges at rising and falling slopes is illustrated for t pulse = 50 µs and t pulse = 10 µs. For pulsed operation a single DBD (also referred to as microdischarge (MD)) occurred at the rising and the falling slope. In the case of a symmetrical pulse (t pulse = 50 µs) the discharge properties at both slopes were the same, only the polarity inverses [6,9]. An asymmetrical pulse, i.e. different pause times between the DBDs at the rising and the falling slopes, caused different discharge properties. The effect on the electrical DBD current at the falling slope is shown in figure 2(b) for different pulse widths between 50 and 0.2 µs. Reduction of the pulse width led to a lower maximum (absolute value) and a smearing of the discharge current, accompanied by a lowering in the applied breakdown voltage 1 . A similar behaviour was reported in [9,10].
In what follows, the different DBD behaviours at the rising and falling slopes for t pulse = 10 µs are analysed using spectrally resolved iCCD and streak camera recordings, as opposed to the spectrally-integrated measurements performed in [9]. The spectrally-resolved two-dimensional (2D) structure and spatio-temporal development of the DBD emission along the channel axis are shown in figure 3 for both slopes of the HV pulse with t pulse = 10 µs. Figure 3(a) shows the 0-0 transition of the SPS of N 2 :
with an excitation energy of ΔE = 11.03 eV [12]. Figure 3(b) displays the 0-0 transition of the first negative system of + N 2 :
with an excitation energy of ΔE = 18.75 eV [12]. The SPS contributed to the major part of the emission while the FNS is correlated to the propagation of the electric field strength (i.e. high energetic electrons) due to its high excitation energy. An overview emission spectrum of a pulsed DBD in 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 is given in [9].
The 2D structures of both emissions (integrated over 150 ns and accumulated over 10 3 DBDs) in figure 3 show a constricted channel in the volume which branches out on the surfaces of the electrodes. There is a zone of lower emission in front of the cathode which is more extended for the DBD at the rising slope than at the falling slope. The distinctions between the SPS and FNS emissions are obvious: for the SPS the emission maximum is in the volume, the discharge channel broadens towards the anode and the surface discharge is more pronounced on the anode, while the FNS emission features almost no broadening and a maximum on the cathode surface. The differences between SPS and FNS are even more pronounced in the spatio-temporal development recorded by the streak camera in the centre of the DBD channel compared to the 2D structure measured by the iCCD camera. The propagation of the cathode-directed ionisation front (positive streamer mechanism) with a maximum on the cathode surface is clearly visible for the FNS emission, while the SPS emission is more intense in the gap in front of the anode.
Furthermore, as no significant change between the SPS and FNS emission was detected during the streamer phase, these measurements confirm the validity of the streamer velocity estimation from both spectral emission developments. The emission development is in agreement with the results of Hoder et al [4] for sinusoidal driven DBDs in a similar arrangement. A direct comparison of the 2D evolution of the SPS and FNS emissions in the volume and on the electrode surfaces can be found in [13].
The recording of the SPS emission of the falling slope in longer time windows (50 ns) including the pre-breakdown phase is shown in figure 4 and provides the key to the explanation of the differences between the DBDs at the rising and falling slope for asymmetrical pulses. A localised diffuse emission in front of the anode lasting about 10 ns and reaching roughly 200 µm in to the gap is visible approximately 25 ns before the global SPS intensity maximum. This emission in the pre-phase can be correlated to an increased space charge which leads to a shift in the inception point of the cathode-directed propagation (see figure 3(b)). Such a localised emission was observed neither in the falling slope of the 50 µs pulse nor in the rising slopes of t pulse = 50, ..., 0.2 µs. The emission of the SPS could be used as a measure for the presence of (high energetic ≈11 eV) electrons because the N 2 (C 3 Π u ) state (see process (1) above) is mostly excited by electron impact at atmospheric pressure.
Moreover, the pre-phase emission of the 10 µs pulse was recorded at both slopes with the more sensitive crosscorrelation spectroscopy (CCS) to verify the findings of the spectrally resolved streak camera measurements. Figure 5 displays the SPS emission profiles obtained by CCS for the rising and falling slopes averaged over 250 µm in front of the anode. A clear localised emission peak of three orders of magnitude lower intensity than the global emission maximum occurs about 25 ns before the global SPS emission.
For the systematic study of the SPS emission in the prephase, spatial-and time-averaged profiles were extracted from the spectrally-resolved streak camera images at the falling slope for t pulse = 50 ... 0.2 µs, in order to get information about the temporal and spatial changes. The temporal SPS emission profiles were obtained for three positions in the gap: Evidently, for all cases, a decrease in the pause time to the previous DBD (lower t pulse ) led to an earlier breakdown (correlated to a fast rise in the SPS emission) and an increase in the SPS emission duration, which corresponds to the behaviour of the discharge current, see figure 2(b). Additionally, spatial SPS emission profiles as shown in figure 7 were generated using a temporal average over 10 ns (just when an emission signal could be detected, e.g. for 8 ⩽ t ⩽ 18 ns for t pulse = 10 µs, see figure 4). For t pulse = 50 µs, no structured SPS emission in the pre-phase was found. The intensity rose exponentially with time before the cathode-directed breakdown occurred (figure 6). The spatial profile shown in figure 7 before the breakdown was also flat.
However, this changed significantly for t pulse = 10 µs, where a temporally limited SPS emission of about 10 ns duration in front of the anode (figure 6(b)) was observed, reaching around 250 µm into the gap (figure 7). In front of the cathode, on the other hand, no significant difference was observed, except the afore-mentioned temporal shift in the breakdown time. A similar behaviour was recorded for t pulse = 5 µs, although the intensity and the duration of the isolated SPS emission in front of the anode increased, accompanied by a further expansion into the gap.
A noticeable change appeared for t pulse = 2 µs: here, the intensity of the isolated SPS emission in front of the anode decreased, but simultaneously a (not isolated) SPS emission in front of the cathode occurred. The spatial profile of the SPS signal showed a local maximum in front of both electrodes.
This announces a transition of the breakdown regime from the cathode-directed streamer to the simultaneous appearance of cathode-and anode-directed streamers, which occurred for t pulse < 2 µs. For t pulse = 1 µs, a localised SPS emission maximum in front of the cathode, (figure 6(c)) and a shift of the spatial SPS emission towards the cathode, accompanied by a much earlier breakdown inception (about 20 ns earlier than for t pulse = 50 µs, figure 6) indicated this change of the breakdown regime, which was also reported in [10]. For t pulse = 0.2 µs the start of the SPS emission in front of the cathode nearly coincided with the fall of the applied voltage, figure 6. The spatial SPS emission maximum was found directly on the   over 250 µm in front of the anode measured by cross-correlation spectroscopy at the rising and falling slope for t pulse = 10 µs and V p = 10 kV. Each profile was obtained from two measurements with different gains of the photomultiplier in order to achieve a higher dynamic range (six orders of magnitude instead of four, see [4]).
The signal from 5 to 42 ns was measured with the highest gain, from 42 to 60 ns with a lower gain. Averaged SPS emission / counts t / ns rising slope (90 µs to previous discharge) falling slope (10 µs to previous discharge) cathode surface, see figure 7. No propagation was observed in this case, merely a re-ignition in the afterglow of the previous DBD. This effect was first reported in [10].
The development of the SPS emission during the breakdown in the gap was analysed by contour plots of the DBD emission at a certain intensity. The results are depicted in figure 8(a), illustrating the streak camera image and the corresponding contour line for t pulse = 1 µs. These plots traced the spatio-temporal breakdown development in the gap for the falling slope and for better comparison were temporally shifted to reach the cathode at the same time, i.e. they were not temporally synchronised.
The extracted contour plots for t pulse = 50, 10, 2, and 1 µs are shown in figure 8(b). Comparing t pulse = 50 µs and t pulse = 10 µs, the lower propagation velocity and the shift of the streamer inception point (place of origin) are obvious for the latter pulse width (see figure 3). For t pulse = 2 µs and t pulse = 1 µs, the formation of a cathode-and anode-directed streamer is clearly visible for both cases, but with slower velocities for t pulse = 1 µs. Using the contour plots shown in figure 8(b), the velocities of the positive streamer in front of the cathode were determined (averaged over 50 µm), displayed in figure 9. The propagation velocity increases with the pause time to the previous DBD (lower t pulse ) from ∼10 5 to 1.5 × 10 6 m s -1 . This indicates a higher electric field strength in front of the cathode [14].
Apart from the influence of the changing preconditions in the gap on the streamer dynamics, a geometric reason for this behaviour is the shift of the streamer inception point (see figure 3(b)), which shortens the possible propagation distance of the streamer towards the cathode, i.e. it reduces the acceleration time.
In summary, for 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 four different regimes comparing the DBDs at rising and falling slopes could be distinguished which were quite sensitive to the pulse width (pause time). The breakdown characteristics and the SPS emission behaviour in the pre-phase are listed in table 1 for the four cases and one transition between them. The different SPS emission structures during the pre-phase conclusively indicate a significant change of the pre-ionisation in the gap, which has distinct effects on the following breakdown.

Comparison with fluid modelling
To analyse the observed phenomena in more detail, a timedependent, spatially 1D fluid model [15] was adapted for the theoretical description of the DBD under consideration. The fluid model comprises particle balance equations for 49 species, including electrons, positive and negative ions and neutral    The accumulation of surface charges on the dielectrics was captured by the integration of the charge carrier fluxes towards these surfaces. To determine the particle and energy fluxes of electrons the improved drift-diffusion approximation detailed in [16] was used. The reaction kinetic scheme included about 520 reactions for the N 2 -O 2 gas mixture [17]. Calculations were performed for the experimental conditions mentioned in section 2 and the three pulse widths t pulse = 50, 10, and 1 µs. Here, the measured voltage was used as the input. All other quantities, including the discharge current density, were self-consistently determined. Figure 10 compares the measured and the modelled results. Displayed are the temporal evolution of the density of the N 2 (C) state obtained from the modelling and the measured SPS emission profiles both averaged over the whole gap. The N 2 (C) density is directly connected to the SPS emission (see process (1) above). The comparison reveals a qualitative agreement between model and experiment; for shorter pause times (t pulse ) the profiles broaden with decreasing intensity. Furthermore, the maxima of the measured SPS emission and the calculated N 2 (C) densities shift in time with decreasing pulse width due to the earlier breakdown. Metastable species such as
(with ΔE = 6.17 eV) may have an influence on the reported effects, because they can transfer their energy to the electrons via super-elastic collisions [18], or excite N 2 (C) due to the pooling reaction [19]. The effective lifetime of
is about 10 µs for the gas composition used in this study of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure.

Discussion
The qualitative agreement between the modelling results and the experimental data for different pulse widths suggests that the model could assist in the interpretation of the afore-mentioned four different breakdown regimes with their distinct pre-phases. Figure 11 displays the temporal development of the dominant charge carrier densities in the centre of the gap for t pulse = 50 and 10 µs. There are considerably high electron and positive ion densities of ⩾10 11 cm -3 to up to approximately 20 µs after the DBD at the rising slope. These charge carrier densities decrease for longer pause times and significantly increase for shorter pause times. When the slope of the HV pulse drops, the resulting fast change of the electric field strength in the gap accelerates the electrons almost immediately (<10 ns), while the heavier ions remain quasistatic (∼1 µs). This is the key for the disparate behaviour in the pre-phase and the following breakdown for different pause times (t pulse ). No significant residual charge carrier densities lead to regime I in table 1 (99.8 μs ⩾ t pulse ⩾ 20 µs). There is an exponential multiplication of electrons which are accelerated in the applied electric field until the positive space charge in front of the anode is high enough to start the cathode-directed   Pause time (t pulse ) / µs breakdown (positive streamer mechanism). The exponential increase in the electron density can be correlated to the recorded exponential increase in the SPS emission in front of the anode for t pulse = 50 µs, see figure 6(b).
This behaviour changes when the charge carrier densities are still higher than a certain level when the falling slope occurs (regime II for 20 μs > t pulse > 4 µs). During the change of the electric field strength, the residual electrons are accelerated towards the anode and reach energies high enough to excite the SPS of N 2 , which leads firstly to the measured localised SPS emission in front of the anode and secondly, to the shift of the streamer inception point towards the centre of the gap. However, the positive space charge generated by fast electrons is not sufficiently high to start the streamer directly after the transit through the gap-which is the reason for the isolated, temporally limited SPS emission maximum. By contrast, the applied breakdown voltage and the discharge current pulse maximum slightly decrease compared to regime I. The isolated SPS emission lengthens and extends with increasing residual electron density (see figure 6(b) and figure 7 for t pulse = 10 and 5 µs).
With further increase in the residual charge carrier densities, the electrons are not only accelerated towards the anode, but also exponentially multiplied in front of the cathode. As a consequence, the isolated SPS emission in front of the anode weakens and the SPS emission in front of the cathode increases. These changes indicate a change in the space charge distribution, which initiates the transition between regime II and III (see table 1) and is accompanied by a further decrease in the applied breakdown voltage.
In regime III (2 μs > t pulse > 0.5 µs), the residual charge carrier densities are high enough to start a cathode-directed streamer about 200 µm in front of the cathode and simultaneously, an anode-directed streamer that propagates with lower velocity. Liu et al [20] qualitatively simulated the same propagation velocity behaviour for a symmetrical plane-toplane arrangement (no dielectric barrier) with a seed charge carrier density of 10 14 cm -3 at atmospheric pressure.
Although the SPS emission for regime III occurs some tens of nanoseconds before the one for regime I, the discharge current maximum for t pulse = 1 µs is delayed compared to t pulse = 50 µs, see figure 2(b). A possible reason for this delay is the simultaneous occurrence of positive and negative streamers towards the electrodes. In addition, the current probe only measures the net drift of all charge carriers in the gap.
If the charge carrier densities exceed a critical level (∼ 10 13 cm -3 ), no streamer-like propagation can occur, because the electrons from the previous DBD are still in motion to build up the surface charges. Thus, the discharge in regime IV can be interpreted as a re-ignition in the immediate afterglow of the previous DBD.   The DBD breakdown regime in pulsed operation can be determined by controlling the pre-ionisation by the pulse width, independently from the repetition rate. The limitation of the pre-phase duration by the rise time of the HV slope (in our case approximately 50 ns) was crucial for the reported effects. Changing the steepness of the HV pulse in a certain range could be another parameter to control the pre-phase and, consequently, the breakdown of the DBD.

Summary
This study investigated the influence of the pulse width on the pre-phase and the subsequent breakdown of pulsed single DBDs in 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure with a 10 kV pulse amplitude and a 10 kHz repetition rate. Results were obtained by electrical and optical diagnostics and compared with the results of 1D fluid modelling. Four distinct breakdown regimes were identified, depending on pause times between the DBDs at the rising and falling slopes (specified by t pulse ) and ranging from 'classical' cathode-directed (positive) streamer propagation, to no streamer propagation at all for subµs pause times. All regimes were determined by their different behaviours in their pre-phases. For 99.8 μs ⩾ t pulse ⩾ 20 µs, no peculiarities in the pre-phase were observed, while the breakdown featured an exponential increase in the SPS (of N 2 ) emission in front of the anode, followed by a propagation of a fast cathode-directed streamer. For pause times between 20 μs and 4 μs a temporally limited (isolated) diffuse SPS emission was found, which could be correlated to a considerably high residual electron density in the gap, which led to changes in the spatio-temporal DBD development-i.a. the propagation velocity, the streamer inception point and the applied breakdown voltage-but to no general changes in the breakdown characteristics. This behaviour changes for pause times in the range of 2 ... 1 μs where a simultaneous cathode-and anodedirected streamer propagation was observed, starting directly from the pre-phase near the cathode. When the pause time was below 0.5 μs, no streamer propagation occurred, but a re-ignition of the afterglow of the previous DBD.
The results of the modelling indicate that the effects of the pause time are correlated to a change in the pre-ionisation created by the previous DBD; in other words the pre-ionisation before the actual breakdown can be controlled by the pulse width.
So far, the discussion has not addressed the role of surface charges, especially their temporal development, which is assumed to be on the microsecond time scale [20]. The inclusion of these processes in a more complex two-dimensional model, as well as the experimental determination of surface charge dynamics on the sub-μs time scale, are among the current challenges in DBD research.

