Abstract
Experiments on the spatial and temporal structure of the breakdown process of sinusoidal-and pulsed-operated dielectric barrier microdischarges (MDs) are compared. Three different waveforms are considered: a sinusoidal waveform at 20 kHz and pulsed-bipolar and unipolar-voltage profiles at 10 kHz with varying duty cycles (asymmetric pulse). Electrical data and simultaneous streak and iCCD images of individual MDs in dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) with 1 mm gap in a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure are recorded. For sinusoidal-operated DBDs there are no significant differences between the MDs at positive and negative half-periods. Sinusoidal operation corresponds to pulsed-bipolar operation with symmetrical pulses, but with lower streamer velocities and different spatio-temporal emission distribution. The development of pulsed-driven MDs is determined by the voltage between both electrodes and not by the polarity of the driven electrode, resulting in nearly the same behavior of bipolar-and unipolar-pulsed-driven MDs. DBDs operated with asymmetric pulses show a significant difference in the spatial structure and in the temporal behavior between the rising and falling slopes of the high voltage pulse.

Introduction
Dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) provide high electron energies at low gas temperatures and consequently generate active species that are highly relevant for plasma chemistry, such as ozone production or gas and water purification [1]. DBDs driven by sinusoidal waveforms are often used as plasma sources for these applications [2]. However, the shape of the applied voltage is an essential factor in the generation of DBDs [3].
In some cases, pulseddriven discharges are more efficient than sinusoidal-driven discharges, e.g. in pollution removal or ozone production [4][5][6]. Investigations on helium-nitrogen plasmas at atmospheric pressure show a higher electron production for pulsedoperated homogeneous DBDs compared with sinusoidal operation [7,8]. So far, the physical properties of sinusoidal operation versus pulsed operation (positive and negative unipolar and bipolar pulses) in air-like plasmas have remained uninvestigated.
Preliminary results in [9] demonstrate that discharges operated with unipolar symmetrical pulses behave similarly to sinusoidal operated discharges. Unipolar-pulsed-driven DBDs show a single microdischarge (MD) generation during the rising and the falling slope of the voltage pulse, that is, also when the potential at the electrodes is changed to zero without changing the sign of the polarity of the driven electrode. This second current pulse is induced by residual surface charges on the surfaces of dielectrics. The situation is different for sinusoidal-driven DBDs. MDs appear in each half-period of the applied voltage while the potential of the driven electrode changes. Thus, the appearance of the MD in a new half-period is also induced by a field reversal. From this point of view, the comparison between pulsed and sinusoidal-driven DBDs needs to be performed with bipolar applied voltage, which represents the same kind of potential change but different voltage slopes. The point of interest is how the surface charges are influenced by the applied electrical field. The objective of this study is to investigate the similarities and differences in the spatiotemporal development and electrical characteristics for several types of operation of gas discharges at atmospheric pressure, based on high resolution electrical and optical measurements.
A number of papers in the literature have compared pulsed and sinusoidal operation, e.g. [5,[10][11][12]. These are mostly single case studies involving large numbers of MDs in the discharge space. This paper continues other previous studies [9,13] and presents experiments with single MDs as a basis for multi-filament systems. In the case of pulsed-driven operation, these have not received much attention in the literature so far. Experimental details include the spatial dependent streamer velocities, pictures of single MDs, high-resolution voltage and current curves and transferred charge values. This paper investigates the influence of the voltage waveform on the electrical characteristics, and the spatial and temporal structure of the breakdown process in a nitrogen-oxygen mixture at atmospheric pressure as a model system. Comparing pulsed with sinusoidal operation of the DBD will provide a deeper insight into the physical processes of breakdown and plasma generation, providing a starting point for the optimization of applications such as exhaust gas treatment.

Experimental and diagnostic set-up
A double-sided (symmetric) dielectric barrier MD arrangement, as described in [9] and shown in figure 1, was used for the investigation of single MDs. It consisted of a gas cell made of plexiglas, including alumina-covered half-sphere metal electrodes and quartz glass windows, which enabled the observation of the MDs. The dielectric barrier was about 0.5 mm thick and the gap between the electrodes was 1 mm. An O 2 /N 2 gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at 1 atm was chosen to obtain stable, well localized filaments. The influence of varying O 2 content on the discharge behavior was analyzed in [14]. A total gas flow of 100 sccm was flushed through the cell (volume ≈ 2.5 cm 3 ). For sinusoidal operation of the DBDs the power supply consisted of an arbitrary waveform generator (HP, 33120A), power amplifier (ALC, AL-1400-HF-A) and a high-frequency high-voltage transformer (ALC, Al-T1000.6). Frequently, more than one current peak occurred per half cycle in sinusoidal-driven DBDs. This was due to re-ignition resulting from the continuous slow voltage increase during the half cycle after recovery of the gap [1]. The same behavior was observed in this set-up, but for an accurate comparison with pulsed operation the sinusoidal discharge parameters were adjusted to generate one MD per half period (f = 20 kHz and V pp = 14 kV), as described in [15].
For pulsed operation of the DBDs a pulse generator was used, powered by two high-voltage power supplies. In this case, the discharge was driven by square wave pulses with variable polarity and 10 kV peak-to-peak voltage V pp at a repetition rate f rep of 10 kHz. Furthermore, the duty cycle D is variable and was chosen at 50% (symmetric pulse) and 10% (asymmetric pulse), respectively, i.e. the pulse width is 50 µs and the pause is 50 µs for 50% or 10 µs and 90 µs (D = 10%), respectively. The voltage rise of the pulse was approximately 250 V ns -1 specified by the pulse generator (DEI, PVX-4110) which was powered by high voltage power supplies (FUG, HCN 1400-12500 and HCK 800M-20000). Thus, the voltage rise time for pulsed mode was three orders of magnitude higher than for sinusoidal operation (<1 V ns -1 ). Electrical measurements were performed with fast probes and the current and voltage waveforms were recorded with a 5 GS s -1 (bandwidth 500 MHz) digital sampling oscilloscope (Tektronix, TDS 7054). Current (Tektronix, CT-1) and voltage probes (Tektronix, P6015A) had rise times less than 0.35 ns and 4.67 ns, respectively.
The MDs were observed simultaneously by an iCCD camera (Andor, iStar DH734-18U-A3) and a streak camera system (Hamamatsu, C5680-21C). These were connected to a far-field microscope (Questar, QM100), as shown in figure 2, which magnifies the discharge image by a factor of four, significantly increasing the spatial resolution. The iCCD  records images of single MDs and their propagation on the electrode surfaces with a temporal resolution of 2 ns and a spatial resolution of 10 µm. The streak camera images yield the spatio-temporal MD development along the discharge axis during the rising and falling slopes of the electrical pulse with a high temporal and spatial resolution of 50 ps and 10 µm, respectively. The cameras and the far-field microscope are sensitive in the UV and the visible spectral range, where the images were recorded spectrally integrated. The time integration over one discharge current pulse gives the transferred charge Q MD for a single MD [17] using the total and barrier capacitances C tot and C b (see [9]). The discharge current I MD is the difference between the measured and displacement current multiplied by the factor (1 -C tot /C b ) -1 [18]. The displacement current is measured without discharge ignition at the same voltage waveform [9]. The values of transferred charges are listed in table 1 for sinusoidal and pulsed operation. The current decay in pulsed discharges is similar to the decay in sinusoidal operation, whereas the current amplitude and thus the transferred charge are higher, although the peak-to-peak voltage is lower. This difference is due to the continuing pulse voltage rises during the MD ignition because of the steep voltage slope (consequently different voltage amplitudes influence I MD and Q MD , see [9]). While in sinusoidal-driven DBDs the transferred charge per MD is only determined by the gas and the geometry and parameters of the discharge arrangement (gap, type and thickness of dielectrics), for pulsed-driven DBDs these parameters can additionally be influenced by the voltage amplitude. Here, a charge about three times higher than for sinusoidal operation is transferred per MD under the conditions considered (see table 1).

Results and discussion
For pulsed operation, the I MD development and transferred charge Q MD are in good agreement for the three pulse modes. There is a slight difference in the I MD maximum at the rising slope between the unipolar and bipolar operation, which does not significantly affect the discharge current shape. The bipolar-driven MDs are more similar to the unipolar pulsed than to the sinusoidal operations, from an electrical point of view. When the applied voltage collapses from its

Rising slope
Falling slope  maximum value, residual charges must induce the MD ignition, which development continues when the potential at the driven electrode is reversing. The surface charges generated in this MD will be sufficient for the breakdown in the next voltage slope. Consequently, in a pulsed-dielectric-barrier arrangement which is grounded at one side (see figure 1), the voltage amplitude determines the discharge current (for D = 50%) [9], because only the absolute value of the external voltage has an effect on the gap voltage and consequently on the electric field. Figure 4 compares two-dimensional structures of MDs for sinusoidal-and bipolar-pulsed operation (D = 50%, i.e. symmetric pulse), as recorded by the iCCD camera. All pictures are in pseudocolor, i.e. red indicates the highest and black the lowest intensity. The MDs are displayed in both half cycles for sinusoidal operation and rising and falling slopes for pulsed operation. The polarity of the electrodes is also indicated, with the powered electrode on top. Single MDs were recorded to obtain an overview of the discharge structure without inferring accumulation effects. The spatial jitter during accumulation can in some cases lead to false estimations, as will be described below.
The MDs consist of a constricted channel in the volume and spreading discharge channels on the surface of the dielectric barriers, similar to unipolar-pulsed-driven MDs. The structure does not change significantly between the slopes, where only the polarity is reversed. The same spatial structures of the discharge are observed in both half cycles of sinusoidal operation. Almost the same delay occurs between the succeeding discharges, leading to a generally equal discharge development in both half periods. The structures are also the same for rising and falling slopes, as well as among the three pulsed modes (bipolar and both unipolar for D = 50%). Comparing sinusoidal and pulsed (D = 50%) operation gives almost the same two-dimensional structures, though the anode branches of surface discharges seem to be more pronounced for pulsed operation.
Furthermore, the diameter of the MDs is determined for all waveforms: it was estimated from single iCCD pictures and measured from the emission in the middle of the gap. There is a measurable difference between the MD diameters for pulsed and sinusoidal operation. The diameter of the MDs is about (75 ±10) µm for all pulsed modes and (100 ±10) µm for sinusoidal operation. The diameters are smaller but the transferred charge is three times as high for pulsed DBDs, which means that the current density in a pulsed DBD is higher than in a sinusoidal one.
Figure 5 shows streak camera images of MDs at both half-periods and slopes for sinusoidal-and bipolar-pulsed (D = 50%) operation. They are taken in the center along the axis of the discharge channel and visualize its spatiotemporal development. This leads to the one-dimensional space over time diagram. The intensity is again in pseudocolor. The different graininess of the pictures result from the different number of accumulated MDs of 750 (pulsed) and 65 (sinusoidal) MDs, respectively. The low number of sinedriven MDs is due to the larger jitter of MD occurrence (∼1 µs versus 0.5 ns for pulsed). Thus, for almost 4000 recorded MDs only 65 remain after jitter correction, revealing a proper picture of MD development.
The discharge process starts with the accumulation of positive space charges in the pre-breakdown phase (Townsend phase) and the subsequent propagation of a cathode directed (positive) streamer followed by a short lasting transient glowlike discharge [9,15,16]. Surface discharges in their temporal development can also be seen on the electrodes at the bottom and top of the pictures.
The temporal behavior for sinusoidal operation is displayed in the right column of figure 5, and the one for pulsed operation in the left column. In general, the similar spatio-temporal behavior for sinusoidal operation [15,16,22] and pulsed mode (all three types for D = 50%) was detected. Since the MD development is determined by the amplitude of the applied voltage, virtually the same spatial and temporal behavior was observed for bipolar-and unipolar-pulsed-driven DBDs. It is similar for both half-periods as well as for both slopes. There are however differences for both types of operation. The streamers are nearly twice as fast in pulsed mode. Furthermore, there is a higher acceleration of the streamer, and its origin is closer to the anode than for sinusoidal operation, see figure 8(a). A possible explanation is the different space charge creation (pre-phase, compare [13,15,16]) before the MD ignites. For sinusoidal operation the voltage in the gap stays several hundred ns before the formation of the positive streamer just below the breakdown voltage [16]. By contrast, for pulsed operation the voltage rises in less than 100 ns to 10 kV, so there is only a short time for the pre-phase [13]; in addition the applied voltage still rises during the streamer propagation, which may lead to faster volume ionization and further acceleration of the streamer propagation.
Both types of operation also show a different temporal emission development, the sinusoidal DBDs lasting a little longer. For the duration of the discharge emission the fullwidth at half-maximum (FWHM) t FWHM of the emission profile is taken as the characteristic time scale. Therefore, the temporal emission signal of the discharge was integrated in the whole gap between the electrodes, i.e. the streak camera signal presented in figure 5 was spatially integrated. The signals were subsequently normalized, the profiles compared and the FWHM determined. The results are displayed in table 2. For all three pulse waveforms with D = 50% at both slopes the t FWHM is about 3.3 ns; for the sinusoidal operation t FWHM is about 4.3 ns for both the positive and the negative half period.
In contrast to sinusoidal operation the application of pulsed waveforms offers a second possibility of varying not only the frequency but also the duty cycle and therefore the delay time to the preceding pulse. The duty cycle was therefore subsequently changed from 50% to 10% (90% for negative unipolar pulse), which led to asymmetric pulses with 10 µs between rising and falling slopes and 90 µs between falling and rising slopes rather than of 50 µs for D = 50%. These effects are investigated further. As was shown, for temporal symmetric pulses there are no significant differences between the MDs at rising and falling slopes. This changes for D = 10% when distinct differences in the MD development and structure for the two different slopes are observed, as was shown only for unipolar positive pulses in [9].
Figure 6 shows iCCD images of a duty cycle variation for rising and falling slopes of bipolar-pulsed DBDs with V pulse = ±5 kV at 10 kHz. For D = 10% the MDs have less spatial jitter so that they seem to have a smaller diameter than the symmetrical ones. But if one compares with single shots as shown for positive unipolar pulses with D = 10% in [9], the diameter is the same for both types. The zone of lower emission in front of the cathode is much smaller in the case of the falling slope. Consequently for the rising slope the 'positive column' of the transient glow in the gap is more concentrated at the anode and in the case of the falling slope located farther in the volume. For D = 50% the structure does not change.
Figure 7 shows the comparison of the spatio-temporal MD development for the duty cycle variation for both slopes of the bipolar pulse. The general evolution is the same, although the streamer propagation velocity clearly depends on the time delay to the preceding MD, as shown in figure 8. The MD lasts longer during the falling slope, while the cathode directed streamer propagates faster in the rising slope for D = 10%. When the streamer propagates faster it generates more charge carriers at this particular time and therefore the discharge current maximum also rises [9,23]. However, the total transferred charge is equal for both slopes.
The streamer propagation velocities shown in figure 8 are calculated from the streak images. The streamer velocities are equal for both half periods of sinusoidal-driven MDs shown in figure 8(a) and approximately 0.6 × 10 6 m s -1 in front of the cathode. Bipolar-and unipolar-pulsed operation of the DBDs for D = 50% provide equal results, which also have the same streamer velocities at both slopes. Due to the faster voltage rise compared with sinusoidal operation, however, the pre-breakdown phase is shorter for pulsed operation and the streamers are faster. The streamer velocities for pulsed operation are 1.5 × 10 6 m s -1 (D = 50%). The fastest velocities are observed in the rising slope for pulsed operation of D = 10% with 2 × 10 6 m s -1 , as shown in figure 8(b).
In the falling slope for D = 10% the region where the streamer starts its propagation with lower acceleration is farther in the volume, see figure 7. For this slope the maximum propagation velocities in front of the cathode are approximately the same as for sinusoidal operation, although the voltage drops much faster with ≈250 V ns -1 instead of ≈1 V ns -1 .
Thus, as for unipolar-pulsed DBDs, the time between the MDs has a significant effect on the discharge physics. Obviously, residuals from the preceding MD influence the breakdown and plasma formation. Both volume and surface processes taking place on a 10 µs time scale must be considered in order to explain the dependence of MD development on the duty cycle. Under the conditions considered here, nitrogen metastables N 2 (A 3 + u ) have an effective lifetime of the same order of magnitude as the pulse duration and therefore may influence MD generation. Ionization of metastables requires less energy than from the ground state, which demands less direct ionization and has a significant influence on the positive streamer characteristics. Furthermore, metastables are considered to lead to secondary emission of electrons from dielectric surfaces (so-called exo-emission) [19]. The general discharge development as described above remains in principle the same at both slopes, as long as the pulse duration is larger than the ion drift time for the 1 mm gap (about 2 µs) [13].
Finally, sinusoidal operation can be characterized by its peak-to-peak voltage and frequency. The frequency determines the time between two discharges and a relatively slow voltage rise leading to a long pre-phase of the MDs in comparison with the pulsed waveform. Pulsed operation is characterized by its peak-to-peak voltage, frequency and duty cycle. Here, frequency and duty cycle determine the time between two discharges, which has a crucial impact on the discharge physics up to breakdown manipulation [13]. There is a high voltage rise (given by the pulse generator) leading to a shorter pre-phase of the MDs and faster streamer velocities. This means that two different discharge modes in one operating DBD are feasible, offering more possibilities to adjust the   DBD for specific applications than is the case for sinusoidal operation.

Summary and conclusions
This paper compared experimental results on the spatial and temporal structure of the breakdown process of sinusoidaland pulsed-operated microdischarges. Electrical data and simultaneous streak and iCCD images of individual microdischarges in dielectric barrier discharges with 1 mm gap in a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure were recorded for various operation modes. The results show that sinusoidal operation corresponds to symmetrical high voltage pulses, but with lower streamer velocities and different spatio-temporal emission distribution than pulsed operation. Bipolar-pulsed-operated DBDs give very  similar results to unipolar-driven discharges for all measured parameters (discharge structure, diameter, streamer velocity).
A modification of the duty cycle of pulsed operation leads to further changes, in particular significant differences in the formation of MDs in rising and falling slopes. This behavior is accompanied by a slight increase in MD duration, a slower streamer, a smaller zone of lower intensity in front of the cathode and expansion of the anode glow into the volume. Both volume and surface processes must be considered in order to explain this behavior. Elevated densities of nitrogen metastables may enhance background ionization in the volume as well as from the dielectric (charged) surfaces leading to changes in the inception and dynamics of streamer propagation and thus of MD structure and properties.
The results show that pulse width variation yields the possibility of controlling MD properties down to the level of fundamental plasma parameters. This offers new possibilities for the optimization and control of plasma chemistry, e.g. exhaust gas treatment or life-science applications.

