Abstract
Discharge development and streamer propagation on a dielectric surface were investigated in nitrogen-oxygen gas mixtures at atmospheric pressure. A coaxial pin-to-pin arrangement was used to generate single surface discharges driven by positive unipolar square wave high voltages of between 7 and 9 kV at 4.3 kHz. The development of surface discharges was recorded by ICCD and streak cameras. The discharges developed on the surface using pin electrodes attached directly to the dielectric plate. The accumulation over several discharge events showed a propagation front evolving from the electrode tip, while images of single discharges showed a non-uniform and branched structure of discharge channels. The electrode polarity influenced the discharge expansion and propagation velocity. Positive polarity of the metallic electrode (rising slope of HV pulses) led to a cathode-directed streamer with higher propagation velocities (5 × 10 5 m/s) than for negative polarity (relative to surface charges; falling slope). The increase in the O2 content in N2 from 0.1 to 20 vol% resulted in a decrease in discharge duration and an increase in streamer velocities.

Introduction
Dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) create a transient non-thermal plasma [1,2] in the gas volume and on the electrode surface and are often used for plasma chemistry. Surface dielectric barrier discharges (SDBDs) are frequently used for e.g. gas flow control or surface cleaning and modification [3,4] and recently for antibacterial treatment of fruits [5]. Sato et al. [6] used surface discharges for exhaust cleaning of automobile gases in an especially designed honeycomb reactor. Several studies deal with active flow control by actuators on the basis of surface nonthermal plasmas, such as [3,[7][8][9][10] which used different discharge configurations to generate a flow of several m/s in the boundary layer along the surface, mainly focussing on strip-on-plane or pin-on-plane geometries [7,11]. The influences of sinusoidal [8,12,13] and pulsed [11,[14][15][16][17][18] voltages of SDBDs on the flow have been analysed experimentally, as well as by modelling [19][20][21].
On the other hand, partial discharges on dielectric surfaces are important in high-voltage installations and systems due to the fact that they may lead to short circuiting and thus damage to devices. An understanding of the discharge propagation with contact to the dielectric surface is thus crucial for the application of SDBDs [22][23][24] and for the prevention of partial discharges [25,26]. Much work a e-mail: kettlitz@inp-greifswald.de has also been devoted to the investigation of charge deposition and development by discharges on dielectric surfaces e.g. [27][28][29][30][31][32].
Pin-to-pin arrangements have been used to obtain insight into the mechanism of propagation of single isolated streamers [23,33,34]. In the current study, a pinto-pin arrangement with metal electrodes separated by a dielectric plate was used to realise the discharge development on ceramics in a nitrogen-oxygen gas mixture. The focus was on the discharge propagation of the SDBD responsible for the gas flow, as well as on the chemistry, rather than on the flow velocity of the gas above the surface. The examination of the discharge propagation on a dielectric surface in a single-filament arrangement with high temporal and spatial resolution provides detailed information about the fast dynamics of the discharge, which is crucial to the understanding of multi-filament arrangements and their application.

Experimental set-up and diagnostics
A coplanar pin-to-pin arrangement was investigated by means of electrical and optical diagnostics (Fig. 1). The discharge arrangement was similar to the one used by Grosch et al. [34], consisting of a 30 × 30 mm 2 wide and 1 mm thick alumina (Al 2 O 3 ) plate with two metal pin  electrodes on each side, creating a 3 mm discharge gap (Fig. 2). Steel hypodermic needles with a diameter of 400 µm were used as electrodes that were fixed with the cannulas and pointed ends to the dielectric surface. The electrode tips had a double cutting with a radius of about 10 µm. One electrode was covered with silicone to prevent a discharge on the lower side, while the other was positioned in the gas flow for observation. The alumina plate was inserted in a gas tight plexiglass cell with quartz windows for side-on and top observation. A gas mixture flow of 100 sccm at atmospheric pressure,  discharge development from the uncovered pin electrode on the surface was optically recorded with fast ICCD (Andor iStar 734) and streak cameras (Hamamatsu C5680) as displayed in Figure 1. The discharge was imaged by a long-distance microscope (Questar QM 100) to the cameras to obtain the discharge development near the electrode with high spatial resolution better than 10 µm.

Results
Figure 3 shows an applied high voltage pulse of 7 kV at 4.3 kHz with a pulse width of 10 µs. During the rising slope (RS) and falling slope (FS) of the high voltage pulse, one discharge is created on the surface. Consequently, the pulse width and the repetition rate determine the time between two subsequent discharges, i.e. there is a delay of 10 µs between the discharge during the rising slope and during the falling slope, and of about 222 µs between the discharge during the falling slope and the following rising slope. This time window determines the preconditions (e.g. pre-ionisation) for the ignition of the successive discharge event.
Figure 4 shows the voltage and current waveforms in detail for the rising and falling slopes of 9 kV at 4.3 kHz with a pulse duration of 10 µs. The steep voltage rise (and drop) causes a high displacement current of up to  about 150 mA overlapping the discharge current. The discharge current during the rising slope (Fig. 4 top) can be recognised as a small peak at about 40 ns when the discharge ignites at approximately 7 kV. In this case, the maximum discharge current was about 80 mA. During the falling slope (10 µs after the preceding discharge), the discharge current is much lower and hardly detectable around t = 0 ns. This is caused by the metallic pin that operates as the cathode and by the higher pre-ionisation that occurrs in the volume due to the shorter delay to the preceding discharge [35].
The discharges are attached to the metallic tip and propagate on the (upper) surface. Figure 5 compares the discharge expansion in the centre for rising and falling slopes. Displayed are the injection needle Figure 5b used as the electrode and single as well as accumulated ICCD images of the discharges during the rising and falling slopes. The images of the single discharges (Figs. 5a and5c) show a non-uniform and branched structure of discharge channels, while the accumulation over several events (Figs. 5d and5e) displays a propagation front evolving from the electrode tip. These ICCD images taken at different times during the discharge development were used to determine the propagation velocities of the discharge over 1 mm away from the tip.   Generally, the discharges always propagate on the dielectric surface, not in the "open" volume as can be seen in the side view of the discharge in Figure 6. They start at the tip of the electrode (on the left-hand side) and propagate in a volume of about 45 µm along the gas-dielectric interface. A proposed sublayer of 50 µm from the streamer to the surface as calculated by Soloviev et al. [21] can not be distinguished, amongst others due to the spatial extension of the alumina plate, leading to side-on imaging limitations close to the surface.
The discharge during the rising slope leads to positive charge deposition on the surface, since unipolar positive HV pulses are applied. The polarity of the metallic tip changes relative to residual surface charges on the dielectrics accumulated during the previous discharge when the applied voltage decreases [29]. The consequence of this relative polarity change of the metallic tip on the discharge expansion is displayed in Figure 5. Branched discharge channels on the dielectrics in direction of the covered electrode can be observed during the rising slope of the HV pulse. Here, the electrode has a positive polarity (anode) in relation to the potential on the dielectrics. During the falling slope, the electrode had a negative polarity (cathode) in relation to the potential on the dielectrics. In this phase, the discharge is localised at the tip of the HV electrode, is brighter, more diffuse and shows a corona-like behaviour.
The electrode polarity influences both the discharge structure (e.g. Fig. 5) and the propagation velocity. The discharges start from the metallic tip on the dielectrics with decreasing propagation velocity. The velocities of the streamer propagation were determined with two different methods: by ICCD and streak camera recordings. Figure 7 shows a selection of ICCD images of the discharge propagation at different times after ignition during the falling slope. Such series of images were used to determine the propagation velocities of the discharge more than 1 mm away from the tip. The discharges start at the electrode tip (t = 0 ns), and also in a region closely behind it (t = 10 ns), where the round injection cannula forms a hollow space and generates an elevated electric field at the so-called triple point [13,36,37]. From then on, the discharges propagate continuously off the tip (t = 20-60 ns) and expire. However, even after 2.4 µs when the discharge propagation is no longer visible, light emission at the electrode tip (cathode) can be observed.
Velocity measurements taken with the streak camera in Figure 8 show a fast decrease in the discharge propagation within the first millimetre from the electrode tip, and afterwards a moderate decrease on the dielectrics. A positive polarity (rising slope) of the metallic electrode compared to the remaining charges on the dielectrics leads to a cathode-directed streamer with higher propagation velocities then for the falling slope. Also, in agreement with ICCD images, the spatial extension of the discharge is longer during the rising slope than during the falling slope. Two phases can be observed during the falling slope: a fast (though slower than during the rising slope) propagation away from the electrode tip up to about 0.3 mm, and afterwards a much slower propagation within 1 mm. This difference results in a longer duration of this phase with the electrode acting as the cathode. Figure 9 shows the discharge propagation velocity during the rising slope in relation to the distance to the electrode tip for 9 kV and 10 µs. The velocities within the first millimetre are observed by means of streak camera images and in the further region by ICCD images. The maximum propagation velocity v max is about 5 × 10 5 m/s at a distance of 150 µm from the electrode tip and rapidly slows down to 7 × 10 4 m/s at 3 mm, due to the decreasing electric field strength on the dielectric surface. This is fundamentally different from volume DBDs, where no interaction between the streamer and the surface during propagation occurs and the streamer head velocity gradually increases on the way to the cathode [16,20,21].
The extension of the propagation on the dielectric surface is shorter during the falling slope when the pin operates as the cathode and the maximum velocity is about one order of magnitude less than when the pin was anode. It reaches values of only up to 8 × 10 4 m/s 150 µm away from the electrode tip. This is due to the higher electric field for positive polarity as reported by [15,21]. The increase of the applied voltage from 7 to 9 kV only leads to a slight increase in streamer velocities (not shown here). Whereas the variation of the pulse width has little influence on the streamer velocity, the polarity of the electrode is more important.
Grosch et al. [34] used a similar configuration with a gap of 1 mm, but they operated the discharge with sinusoidal voltage. During the positive half period, they also observed a cathode-directed streamer with decreasing velocity. In the negative half period the optical signals were of lower intensity and no positive streamer was reported. For sine-driven discharges, they measured lower maximum velocities of 2.8 × 10 5 m/s at 0.2 mm from the anode decreasing to 1.5 × 10 5 m/s in the cathode region (i.e. 1 mm).
Boeuf et al. [12] used a two-dimensional fluid model to describe the dynamics of surface DBDs mainly for actuators. In their study, the metallic anode above the surface led to a glow discharge sustained by secondary emission. The cathode led to a plasma of small extension comparable to a corona-like discharge. Calculations of the sheath propagation gave maximum velocities of 5 × 10 5 m/s. Kim et al. [24] reported maximum velocities for positive streamers of 7.5 × 10 5 m/s for pulsed surface discharges on Ag-supported Al 2 O 3 and 5.5 × 10 5 m/s on Ag-supported TiO 2 . Akishev et al. [11] investigated DBDs in a pin-to-plain arrangement in Ar on glass surfaces with one 5.5 kV pulse every 5 minutes. They measured maximal velocities of 0.5 × 10 5 m/s which decreased exponentially with distance to the tip. This is comparable to our velocities further away from the tip. Our higher spatial resolution enables a more precise measurement directly in the vicinity of the tip. We can conclude that the velocities measured in the current study are both higher, and lower than in most volume DBDs, where the streamer develops in the volume and not at the surface. A comparison of SDBDs with the undisturbed propagation of streamers in the gas volume yields velocities one order of magnitude lower on the surface than in the volume reported for single filaments (e.g. [35]) with a v max of about 1.5 × 10 6 m/s 50 µm in front of the cathode for similar conditions.
To analyse the influence of the gas composition on the behaviour of surface DBDs, the O 2 content in N 2 was varied between 0.1 and 20 vol%. Figure 10 shows streak camera images for various O 2 contents for 9 kV and t pulse = 10 µs in the rising slope. The increase in the O 2 content in N 2 from 0.1 to 20 vol% results in a decrease in the discharge duration and an increase in the streamer velocity, similar to as reported by Höft et al. [35] in pulsed volume discharges. The discharge duration in relation to the O 2 content in N 2 for 9 kV and t pulse = 10 µs in the rising slope is displayed in Figure 11. The data from streak camera measurements are spatially integrated over a range of 0.4 mm in front of the electrode tip, with normalised curves for better comparability. The dashed lines in Figure 11 indicate the decay times of the radiation on the surface, which decrease with increasing O 2 content in N 2 and thus with discharge duration.
Figure 12 shows the dependence of the rising O 2 content in N 2 on the discharge propagation velocity on the dielectric surface in rising and falling slopes for an applied voltage pulse of 9 kV and t pulse = 10 µs. Displayed are the values measured by the streak camera at a distance of up to 1 mm from the electrode tip. Again, the expansion of the SDBDs is larger for the rising slope than for the falling slope, and their maximum velocities are also higher for all gas mixtures. The velocities of the falling slope are considerably lower than for the rising slope, with values of about 4.8 × 10 4 m/s at 150 µm. These velocities are more or less the same for all O 2 contents at this position and they only show a gas mixture dependence further away. The propagation velocities for the rising slope increase with increasing O 2 content and the maximum velocity of about 9.5 × 10 5 m/s is reached 150 µm off the electrode tip for the highest O 2 content of 20 vol% similar to the findings in [38] for single-filament volume DBDs. The latter results have been explained by the properties of oxygen, e.g. the collisional quenching of excited N 2 states by O 2 and O and electron trapping due to the electronegativity of oxygen, leading to reduced background ionisation levels [39].

Summary
A coaxial pin-to-pin arrangement was used to generate single surface discharges driven by positive unipolar square wave high voltage pulses between 7 and 9 kV at 4.3 kHz. The discharges developed on the surface using metallic pin electrodes attached directly to an alumina plate. The discharges propagated off the electrode tip on the dielectric surface with decreasing velocity. Images of single discharges showed a non-uniform and branched structure of discharge channels, while the accumulation over several events showed a propagation front starting from the electrode tip. The properties of the SDBDs were polaritydependent. A positive polarity at the metallic electrode (rising slope of the HV pulse) led to a cathode-directed streamer with higher propagation velocity of v max equal to 5 × 10 5 m/s (9 kV, 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 , 150 µm off the electrode tip). A negative polarity (i.e. compared to the charged dielectric surface; falling slope of the HV pulse) led to a corona-like behaviour with a lower propagation velocity of v max equal to 8 × 10 4 m/s. The increase in the O 2 content in N 2 from 0.1 to 20 vol% resulted in a decrease in discharge durations and an increase in streamer velocities.
It can be concluded that the discharge morphology and development of discharges driven by positive unipolar square wave high voltage pulses are similar to those of sinusoidal operation. However, steep HV slopes resulted in faster increase in electric field strength, which led to rapid ionisation within the vicinity of the tip and consequently to higher streamer propagation velocities.

