Abstract
The influence of gas flow rate on breakdown properties and stability of pulsed dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) in a single filament arrangement using a gas mixture of 0.1 vol. % O2 in N2 at atmospheric pressure was investigated by means of electrical and optical diagnostics, accompanied by fluid dynamics and electrostatics simulations. A higher flow rate perpendicular to the electrode symmetry axis resulted in an increased breakdown voltage and DBD current maximum, a higher discharge inception jitter, and a larger emission diameter of the discharge channel. In addition, a shift of the filament position for low gas flow rates with respect to the electrode symmetry axis was observed. These effects can be explained by the change of the residence time of charge carriers in the discharge region—i.e., the volume pre-ionization—for changed flow conditions due to the convective transport of particles out of the center of the gap.

II. EXPERIMENTAL SET-UP AND MODELING
In order to focus exclusively on the influence of the neutral gas flow rate on the discharge properties, the experiments and the numerical investigations were performed using an established DBD arrangement. 5,11 The experimental set-up is therefore described only briefly here; more details can be found e.g., in Kettlitz et al. 11 The DBDs under consideration were driven by positive unipolar square wave pulses with 10 kV amplitude (V p ) at a repetition frequency (f rep ) of 10 kHz. The pulse width (t pulse ) was set to 10 ls, i.e., there were 10 ls between rising and subsequent falling slopes, and 90 ls between falling and subsequent rising slopes. The steepness of the rising and falling slopes of the high voltage pulses was about 250 V/ns, specified by the pulse generator (DEI PVX-4110). The DBDs were recorded by a fast iCCD camera (Andor iStar, Dt ! 2 ns, Dx < 10 lm) connected to a far-field microscope (Questar QM100), see Figure 1. Electrical measurements were performed with fast voltage (Tektronix V R P6015A) and current probes (Tektronix V R CT-1) and recorded by a digital phosphor oscilloscope (Tektronix V R TDS 7054).
The gas inlet and outlet of the discharge cell were located perpendicular to the filament situated between the half-spherical electrodes, see Figure 1. Therefore, a full 3D model was required for the theoretical description of the neutral gas flow through the cell. The total flow rate U tot was varied by mass flow controllers from 100 to 1000 sccm (1 sccm ¼ 1 cm 3 /min at standard conditions).
In order to support the experimental results, a stationary model was built in COMSOL Multiphysics V R for the threedimensional description of the gas flow and the electrostatic field distribution in the discharge cell, based on the exact geometry of the discharge cell. To simulate the gas dynamics, the laminar flow module for compressible flow conditions was applied, assuming a constant gas temperature of 293.15 K. The electrostatic field distribution was calculated using the electrostatics module. At the gas inlet, the experimental flow rate was directly imposed as a mass flow boundary condition for the gas velocity. Outflow conditions with a fixed pressure were used at the outlet. To determine the electrostatic field, a constant voltage of 10 kV was applied at the powered electrode, while the other electrode was grounded.

III. RESULTS
The gas velocity magnitudes obtained from the COMSOL model for flow rates of 100 and 200 sccm are visualized in Figure 2. Additionally, Figure 3 shows the velocity magnitude profiles along the flow direction through the center of the discharge gap perpendicular to the electrode symmetry axis for input flow rates U tot ¼ 100, 200, 500, and 1000 sccm. At the lower flow rate of 100 sccm, the velocity magnitude of the gas stream decreases from the inlet (top) towards the center of the electrode gap, where a small local maximum caused by stricture appears. At the higher flow rate of 200 sccm, a more pronounced gas stream through the cell develops and the local maximum of the velocity magnitude at the center of the electrode gap approaches the maximum velocity at the inlet. When the flow rate was increased further to the upper limit of 1000 sccm, the velocity magnitude featured a global maximum in the gap center (see Figure 3).
In order to quantify the influence of the flow rate on the gas velocity in the discharge zone between the half-spherical electrodes, the velocity magnitude obtained from the COMSOL calculations was averaged over a cylinder with 100 lm diameter located between the electrode tips. Figure 4 shows that the mean velocity magnitude in the discharge zone (v gas ) increases linearly with the applied flow rate U tot ; therefore, the residence time (t res ) of a unit gas volume in the discharge zone decreases as U À1 tot . Assuming a discharge channel radius of r DBD ¼ 50 lm, mean residence times t res ¼ r DBD =v gas between 408 ls for U tot ¼ 100 sccm and 19 ls for U tot ¼ 1000 sccm were obtained, as illustrated in Figure 4. For a flow rate of 100 sccm, the residence time exceeded the period length of the applied voltage pulses T ¼ f À1 rep ¼ 100 ls, while it became significantly shorter than T at U tot ¼ 1000 sccm. Note that the small gas velocities in the boundary layer close to the dielectric surfaces are much less affected by the flow rate than the average velocity in the discharge region. However, these regions are of minor importance for the residence times considered here, because the density of charged and excited species drops in front of the  boundaries few microseconds after breakdown due to wall loss processes. The calculated residence times set an upper limit for the duration of the stay of electrons, ions, and excited species such as metastable N 2 (A) molecules, in the region where they were produced by an individual discharge event. Thus, the pre-conditions for the ignition of the subsequent discharge event were directly affected by the residence time t res , as soon as t res became close to or shorter than the period length T. No effect of the gas flow rate on the discharge properties is expected for residence times much longer than the period length of the applied voltage pulses. Therefore, it is reasonable to use t res as the reference quantity to compare the impact of the flow rate on the discharge properties.
In Figure 5(a), the rising slope of the high voltage (HV) pulse and the corresponding electrical discharge current I DBD are shown for U tot ¼ 100; 200, and 1000 sccm. The displacement current-which is in the same order of magnitude as I DBD because of the steep HV slope-was subtracted. 11 In the mono-filament arrangement used here, a single discharge can be observed at the rising and falling slope, but with inverted polarities. 11 A detailed view of the applied voltage course and the DBD current pulse at the rising slope is displayed in Figure 5(b) for a 15 ns time window. Here, a breakdown delay with increasing gas flow rate is clearly visible. A consequence of this delay is an increase in the applied voltage at the moment of breakdown due to the steep HV slope. Furthermore, the DBD current maxima increase with increasing gas flow rate as a direct consequence of the rising breakdown voltage, which is accompanied by a higher positive streamer velocity, as previously reported in Kettlitz et al. 11 The mean breakdown voltage and the DBD inception jitter shown in Figure 6 in dependence on the mean residence time were obtained by a statistical analysis of 1250 subsequent discharge events in the same way as described in H€ oft et al. 7 Both quantities decrease with rising t res , i.e., with decreasing gas flow rate.
The impact of the flow rate on the DBD emission structure can be seen in the iCCD images shown in Figure 7 for single DBDs (a) and 1000 accumulated DBDs (b). The direction of the gas flow is indicated by an arrow. The general DBD structure features a thin constricted channel in the volume and spreading surface discharges on the dielectrics. The single shots display the emission structures of individual discharge events, while the accumulated images show the spatial distribution of the DBD channels in the volume and on the electrode surfaces. Obviously, the positions of the DBD channel differ for the various gas flow rates. Furthermore, the broader accumulated channel profiles for flow rates of 200 and 1000 sccm compared to U tot ¼ 100 sccm (see Figure 7(b)) indicate that the spatial jitter of the channel position is higher at U tot ¼ 200 and 1000 sccm than at U tot ¼ 100 sccm. Although the channel position (discharge pathway) of a single discharge event is stochastic, the spatial distribution of all occurring channel positions is reproducible for each value of U tot .
The spatial shift of the mean channel positions with respect to the electrode symmetry axis is quantified in Figure 8. For a gas flow rate of 1000 sccm, the discharge channels mainly occurred in the central position between the electrodes, but were significantly shifted out of the center for U tot ¼ 100 and 200 sccm. The positive and negative shift measured for the gas flow rates of 100 and 200 sccm, respectively, indicates that the shift of the mean channel positions is not directly connected to the direction of the gas stream.
The representation of single discharge events in Figure 7(a) also shows that the spatial shift at U tot ¼ 100 and 200 sccm goes along with a slight bending of the discharge channels, which is not the case for the flow rate of 1000 sccm. The electric field lines calculated with COMSOL Multiphysics V R in Figure 9 suggest that this curvature may be caused by the fact that the field lines between the halfspherical electrodes are straight at the central position, only, and discharge filaments typically follow the electric field lines, though they can also be spatially guided even by very low volume pre-ionization. 19 Figure 10 shows the DBD emission diameter d DBD in dependence on the flow rate. Here, the DBD emission diameter (that is, the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the emission profile in the center of the gap) was determined from single DBDs. It was found that the discharge diameter decreased with increasing t res (i.e., with decreasing flow rate).

IV. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
The obtained results pointed out that the velocity of the gas flow perpendicular to the electrode symmetry axis has a distinct influence on the breakdown properties and the stability of pulsed-operated DBDs in a single filament arrangement. It was found that the breakdown voltage, DBD current maximum, discharge inception jitter, spatial filament position, and discharge channel diameter are particularly influenced by the total gas flow. However, the gas flow cannot directly affect the ignition and development of an individual filament because of the different time scales of the discharge mechanisms (ps to ls) and the gas flow dynamics (ms to s). The positive streamer-like breakdown in DBDs in N 2 -O 2 gas mixtures at atmospheric pressure takes place in the order of a few nanoseconds, and the duration of the main electrical current flow is in the range of 100 ns. On the other hand, the diffusion and recombination of neutral and charged particles take place on a micro-and millisecond time scale. Consequently, the gas flow can only affect the conditions prior to the breakdown itself.
For the three flow rates analyzed in this study (U tot ¼ 100; 200; 1000 sccm), the maximum residence time of particles in the center of the gap was estimated to t res ¼ 408, 132, and 19 ls, respectively. These residence times can be correlated with the period T of the applied pulse voltage (f rep ¼ 10 kHz () T ¼ 100 ls). For the lowest flow of 100 sccm, the gas volume in the gap center was exchanged every fourth period, while for 1000 sccm, it was exchanged approximately five times per period. A lower gas flow (equivalent to a higher residence time) led to a lower breakdown voltage, DBD current maximum, discharge inception jitter, a stable filament position, and a reduced emission diameter. A higher gas flow (equivalent to a lower residence time) had the opposite effect, i.e., an increased breakdown voltage, DBD current maximum, and discharge inception jitter accompanied by a larger emission diameter. Furthermore, the spatial shift of the mean filament position with respect to the electrode symmetry axis, which was observed for the lower flow rates (100 and 200 sccm), was not recorded for U tot ¼ 1000 sccm. In our previous works, 5,7,11 it has been reported that a higher pre-ionization level resulted in a decrease of the applied breakdown voltage, DBD current maximum, discharge inception jitter, and DBD emission diameter. Moreover, Akishev et al. 20 stated that in a steady-state DBD, the volume pre-ionization directly influences the position of the filament, while the temporal DBD inception jitter depends on deposited surface charges.
The mean steady-state filament position was on the symmetry axis of the half-sphere electrodes for the highest gas flow (1000 sccm), because any volume memory effects are inhibited by the short residence time of about 20 ls, which is much shorter than the pulse period of T ¼ 100 ls. For the lower gas flows, the mean filament position was affected by the pre-conditions, i.e., it was above the central position for 100 sccm and below for 200 sccm (see Figures 7 and8).
Although the surface charges are not expected to be directly affected by the flow conditions, the effect of the flow rate on the DBD current (see Figure 5) also suggests an indirect impact of the flow rate on the deposited surface charge caused by the different breakdown conditions. This, in turn, explains the change of the discharge inception jitter with changing flow rate (see Figure 6) in agreement with Akishev et al. 20 In conclusion, a change of the volume pre-ionization for changed flow conditions due to the convective transport of charge carriers out of the center of the gap could explain the observed effects. Hence, besides the pulse width and the oxygen content, 5,7,11 the input gas flow provides an additional control parameter for specific properties of pulsed DBDs in a single filament arrangement.

