Abstract
The phenomenology and breakdown mechanism of dielectric barrier discharges are strongly determined by volume and surface memory effects. In particular, the pre-ionization provided by residual species in the volume or surface charges on the dielectrics influences the breakdown behavior of filamentary and diffuse discharges. This was investigated by advanced diagnostics such as streak camera imaging, laser photodetachment of negative ions and laser photodesorption of electrons from dielectric surfaces in correlation with 1D fluid modeling. The streak camera images show that an increasing number of residual charges in the volume changes the microdischarge breakdown in air-like gas mixtures from a cathodedirected streamer to a simultaneous propagation of cathode-and anode-directed streamers. In contrast, seed electrons are important for the pre-ionization if the density of residual charges in the volume is low. One source of seed electrons are negative ions, whose density exceeds the electron density during the prephase of diffuse helium-oxygen barrier discharges as indicated by the laser photodetachment experiments. Electrons desorbed from the cathodic dielectric have an even larger influence. They induce a transition from the glow-like to the Townsend-like discharge mode in nominally pure helium. Apart from analyzing the importance of the pre-ionization for the breakdown mechanism, the opportunities for manipulating the lateral structure and discharge modes are discussed. For this purpose, the intensity and diameter of a diffuse discharge in helium are controlled by an illuminated semiconducting barrier.

Introduction
Dielectric barrier discharges are one of the most common discharge types used for applications at atmospheric pressure [1][2][3][4][5][6][7][8]. Their main feature is at least one dielectric between the electrodes, which inhibits a continuous current and thus the transition to an arc discharge. More precisely, surface charges accumulate on the dielectric surface during the discharge development and form an inversed electric field which causes the self-extinction of the discharge. That is why a time-varying voltage is necessary for a continuous operation. This transient character of the discharge keeps the gas temperature low, which is important for the treatment of heat-sensitive dielectric surfaces or biological samples, as well as for the effective production of heat-sensitive compounds such as ozone [9][10][11][12].
Contribution to the Topical Issue "Fundamentals of Complex Plasmas", edited by Jürgen Meichsner, Michael Bonitz, Holger Fehske, Alexander Piel.
a e-mail: nemschok@physik.uni-greifswald.de
Due to the periodic re-ignition, the breakdown mechanism of barrier discharges determines their phenomenology. For discharges in air, arbitrarily distributed discharge filaments can usually be observed. This discharge mode is based on the streamer breakdown mechanism, which is a consequence of fast volume ionization processes, e.g. photo-ionization. The fast volume ionization causes a strong localized electric field enhancement by space charges, which is the starting point of a cathode-directed streamer developing on the nanosecond time scale [13][14][15][16][17].
Apart from filamentary barrier discharges, laterally homogeneous, so-called diffuse discharges [18][19][20][21][22][23][24], and laterally patterned discharges exist [25][26][27][28][29][30]. They are typical of mixtures of noble gases such as helium with molecular admixtures such as nitrogen or oxygen. In these gas mixtures, the Penning ionization of molecules by metastable noble-gas atoms can become dominant, which slows down the overall discharge development. Although the electric field enhancement by space charges is mostly still necessary for the breakdown, the slow discharge development on the microsecond time scale allows a laterally uniform build-up of space charges, and the emission of secondary electrons becomes more important. If the discharge is already patterned, the spatial distribution of surface charges on the dielectrics from previous breakdown events supports the local re-ignition of the subsequent breakdown. The electric field enhancement by surface charges is called surface memory effect and favors the long-term conservation of the lateral discharge structure [27,[30][31][32][33][34].
The breakdown mechanism of diffuse barrier discharges is categorized in two discharge modes, the glow-like discharge mode (atmospheric pressure glow discharge, APGD) and the Townsend-like discharge mode (atmospheric pressure Townsend discharge, APTD), because of their similarities to low pressure DC discharges [20,23,35]. The glow-like discharge appears if the electric field enhancement by space charges is necessary to form sufficient charge carriers for the discharge breakdown. Therefore, it shows a cathode-directed ionizing front similar to the propagation of a positive streamer. In the Townsendlike discharge mode, the formation of charged particles already takes place at low electric fields, e.g. because of a large secondary electron emission by residual species in the volume or a large pre-ionization in the volume. Hence, the discharge current is carried without a remarkable distortion of the electric field across the gas gap.
Apart from the key role of the pre-ionization for the Townsend-like discharge mode, a large pre-ionization is also responsible for a transition from streamer discharges to diffuse glow-like discharges [36][37][38][39]. Usually, the preionization is influenced by residual charges in the volume from the previous discharge event and their probability to recombine or to form negative ions. On the one hand, negative ions enhance the recombination by ion-ion collisions. On the other hand, they can be a source of seed electrons. Furthermore, weakly bound surface electrons can be released from the dielectrics by thermal desorption or secondary electron emission, which influences the pre-ionization of the discharge. The surface charges also influence the breakdown behavior in barrier discharges, in particular its lateral structure. Discharge configurations with an illuminated semiconducting barrier enable an active control of the gap voltage which could be related with the lateral structure.
For this paper, several experiments were developed and performed to investigate the different sources of the pre-ionization and their influence on the discharge development in barrier discharges. The common feature of the experiments was the manipulation of the pre-ionization before the discharge breaks down. The influence of this manipulation on the discharge development was systematically studied. In addition, the experimentally observed barrier discharges and the manipulation mechanisms were analyzed by means of numerical modeling in order to draw quantitative conclusions by comparing the experimental with the modeling results.
First, the paper starts with the used discharge configurations, the diagnostics and the corresponding models are presented in Section 2. Section 3 then discusses the influence of the different sources of pre-ionization by means of the experimental and the modeling results. The most important findings and main tasks for the future in this field of research are pointed out in Section 4.

Experimental setup and modeling


Discharge configurations
The three different barrier discharge configurations are shown in Figure 1. Configuration A in (a) consisted of two alumina-covered (relative permittivity of about 9, thickness of 0.5 mm) half-spherical electrodes at a gap width of 1 mm [40]. The purpose of configuration A was to fix microdischarges at the central symmetry axis for the observation with optical diagnostics [14][15][16][17]21]. The discharge was operated in a flowing mixture of nitrogen with 0.1 vol% oxygen at a pressure of 1 bar. Positive unipolar square wave pulses with an amplitude of 10 kV and a frequency of 10 kHz were provided by a pulse generator (DEI PVX-4110, steepness of 250 V/ns) and a high-voltage power supply (FUG, HCN 1400 -12500). The pulse width t pulse was varied from 50 µs (half of the voltage period) to 0.2 µs by a pulse delay generator (SI, DG645).
For discharge configuration B in Figure 1b, two planeparallel electrodes (diameter of 12 mm) were used to enable the investigation of diffuse barrier discharges by means of laser diagnostics [41][42][43]. Here, two float glass plates (thickness of 0.7 mm, relative permittivity of 7.6) covered the electrodes at a gap width of 3 mm. The laser photodetachment experiments were performed in a gas mixture of helium with 400 ppm oxygen and the laser photodesorption experiments were realized in nominally pure helium (purity > 99.999%), both in the flowing regime at a pressure of 500 mbar. The power supply (Trek PM04015) provided a sinusoidal voltage at a frequency of 2 kHz and an amplitude of 700-800 V. Under these conditions, the discharge was operated in the diffuse discharge mode.
In discharge configuration C in Figure 1c, one dielectric barrier was replaced by semiconducting gallium arsenide (thickness of 1.1 mm) [29]. At a gap width of 1 mm, an ITO (indium tin oxide) coated glass plate (thickness of 1.5 mm) served as the other dielectric and the coating formed the plane electrode. Configuration C with its diameter of 46 mm had a high aspect ratio. The gas chamber was filled with nominally pure helium at a pressure of 54 mbar. Afterwards, the gas flow was stopped and the chamber was cooled down to about 188 K to reduce the intrinsic conductivity of the semiconductor. At this temperature, the gas pressure was about 35 mbar. The diffuse discharge was ignited by a sinusoidal voltage at a frequency of 100 kHz and an amplitude of 185 V, supplied by a high voltage generator (Matsusada AMT-0.6B10-LC) and a waveform generator (Agilent 33210a). The discharge configuration was completed by a 50 W halogen lamp, which illuminated the semiconductor to enhance its photoconductivity. The diameter and the intensity of this illumination were controlled by a variable aperture and a tunable power supply (Oriel 68830), respectively.

Diagnostics
Figure 2 shows a sketch of the various diagnostics methods. The diagnostics included a voltage probe (Tektronix P6015A, 1000:1) in configurations A and B or a voltage divider (1000:1) in configuration C to measure the applied voltage. The currents in configurations A and C were measured by a Rogowski coil (Tektronix CT-1), the current in configuration B was derived from the total charge measurement across an external capacitor (3.4 nF). All electrical signals were recorded with oscilloscopes (Tektronix DPO 7254C, LeCroy 9304AM, LeCroy 9374M).
Optical emission spectroscopy was realized by imaging the discharge emission via lenses onto the entrance slit of a monochromator (ARC SpectraPro-500). Behind the monochromator, a photomultiplier tube (Hamamatsu R928) converted the light intensity into an electrical signal. To analyze the spatio-temporal development of microdischarges in two dimensions, a long-distance microscope in combination with an ICCD camera (Andor iStar 334T, temporal resolution ≥2 ns, spatial resolution ≈ 2 µm) was used. In addition, a streak camera (Hamamatsu C5680, temporal resolution ≥50 ps, spatial resolution ≈ 2 µm) allowed a fast one-dimensional discharge observation with temporal discharge jitter correction. The lateral extension of the diffuse discharge in configuration C was observed by a further ICCD camera from top (Proxitronic, 1000 FPS).
In addition to the passive diagnostics, a Nd:YAG laser (Quanta Ray GCR 130, pulse duration less than 10 ns, maximal pulse energy of 170 mJ at 1064 nm and 70 mJ at 532 nm) enabled the manipulation of the discharge in configuration B by laser photodetachment of negative ions in the volume, and laser photodesorption of surface electrons from the dielectrics. The laser beam was focused by a cylindrical lens and the vertical extent of the laser beam was about 1 mm in the center of the discharge configuration. For the laser photodetachment experiment, the laser beam passed the 3 mm wide gap without hitting the dielectric surfaces, whereas the laser beam was moved towards the surface for the laser photodesorption experiment.

Modeling
Different fluid modeling approaches were applied to gain a profound understanding of the discharge properties and to support the interpretation of the manipulations of the discharge development from the experiment.
For the theoretical investigation of microdischarges in nitrogen-oxygen mixtures in configuration A, the timedependent, spatially one-dimensional fluid model for barrier discharges described in [44][45][46] was used. This model, referred to as model A in the following, comprised the Poisson equation for the self-consistent determination of the space charge field, continuity equations for electrons, ions and relevant neutral species, and a surface charge balance equation to consider the accumulation of charge carriers on the dielectrics. In addition, the electron energy balance equation was taken into account. Following the modeling studies in [47][48][49], the improved drift-diffusion approximation introduced in [50,51] was used for the determination of the particle and energy flux of the electrons. All electron transport properties as well as the rate coefficients of electron collision processes were incorporated as functions of the mean electron energy [52]. To determine these coefficients, the stationary, spatially homogeneous, Boltzmann equation of the electrons was solved in multiterm approximation [53] for a given electric field and gas mixture composition. The considered reaction kinetics scheme was based on [54] and includes about 50 heavy particle species and 520 reactions for the nitrogen-oxygen gas mixture [44]. The emission of secondary electrons caused by positive ions impinging onto the dielectric surface and the partial reflection of particles according to [55] were used as boundary conditions for the continuity equations and the electron energy equation at the dielectrics.
A second fluid model B1 concerned the diffuse heliumoxygen barrier discharges in configuration B and the laser photodetachment of negative ions. It was based on an analytical calculation of the electric field [56,57] and the numerical solution of the continuity equations for charged and neutral particles. The electron transport parameters (mobility, diffusion coefficient), the mean electron energy and the rate coefficients for the most important electron impact processes were derived by BOLSIG+ under the assumption of the local field approximation [58,59]. The required electron collision cross sections were taken from the Lisbon database on lxcat.net [60]. Rate coefficients for additional collisions with electrons were given by analytical formulas depending on the mean electron energy [61]. The laser beam was included by a time-and space-dependent photon density, and the laser photodetachment of O -, O - 2 , and O - 3 was considered [62][63][64][65]. Furthermore, the photodissociation of O - 3 to O -and O 2 was included [66].
In a further fluid model B2, which was based on model B1, the number of included oxygen species was reduced [43] and nitrogen species were added to consider the role of air impurities in nominally pure helium. The air content was fixed to 80 ppm which resulted in a good agreement of the modeled discharge with the experimentally investigated discharge. To take into account the laser photodesorption of surface electrons from the dielectric, a time-dependent flux of electrons from the surface to the discharge volume was added.

Results and discussion


Volume memory effect on microdischarge breakdown
Single-filament barrier discharges driven by unipolar high voltage pulses show two breakdowns during one voltage period, the first during the rising and the second during the falling slope [40]. In contrast to sinusoidally driven barrier discharges, the time between the rising and the falling slope, the pulse width t pulse , is controllable. For the gas mixture of nitrogen and 0.1 vol% oxygen and pulse widths larger than 20 µs, the two breakdown events are nearly independent of each other and both show the three phases of microdischarges: the Townsend pre-phase with an emission maximum in front of the anode, the cathode-directed streamer with propagation velocities of up to 10 6 m/s during the breakdown, and the decay phase [40,[67][68][69]. For shorter pulse widths, the residual charges from the afterglow of the breakdown during the rising slope influences the breakdown during the falling slope. This effect was investigated using configuration A by reducing the pulse width t pulse of the unipolar high voltage pulses. A change in discharge development was observed for t pulse < 20 µs.
In Figure 3, examples for pulse widths t pulse = 10 µs and t pulse = 1 µs are given. The applied voltages and discharge currents during the falling slope are plotted together with the corresponding spatio-temporally resolved emission of the second positive system (SPS) on the central axis, which is dominantly excited by electron impact collisions under these experimental conditions. For a pulse width of t pulse = 10 µs, the emission maximum during the prephase is in front of the anode and decreases before the streamer starts. The maximum in front of the anode is typical for the Townsend pre-phase, but the exponential increase in time is missing. Hence, the emission structure does not indicate the build-up of charges during the Townsend pre-phase, but it shows the acceleration of residual electrons from the previous breakdown towards the anode during the falling voltage slope. Once most of these residual electrons are gone, the actual pre-phase of the discharge starts, followed by the cathode-directed streamer. Its velocity is below 10 6 m/s; hence, the breakdown is slower than for a typical streamer breakdown at t pulse ≥ 20 µs in the used gas mixture. The reason for this is the remaining large number of residual charges, mainly positive ions, in the gap. They support the formation of the critical space charge in the volume; therefore, the cathode-directed streamer is able to start in the volume. After the streamer, the typical axial structure with a negative glow and an anode glow is visible. It lasts for about 5 ns, which is slightly longer than for usual microdischarge breakdowns under these conditions. For the shorter pulse width of t pulse = 1 µs, the maximum of the optical emission during the pre-phase appears in front of the cathode. It is the starting point for the simultaneous propagation of the cathode-directed streamer and an electron drift towards the anode. Due to the large density of residual charges from the previous breakdown, the drift of the electrons towards the anode leaves behind an even larger number of positive ions in front of the cathode. Therefore, the cathodedirected streamer starts about 150 µm in front of the cathode. Between this starting point and the anode, quasineutrality remains and the electric field is low. The further increase in applied voltage causes an expansion of the cathode fall region and the electrons are pushed towards the anode. Looking at the axial emission structure after the anode-directed streamer touches the surface, the negative glow is wider and the anode glow is smaller in comparison to the discharge with t pulse = 10 µs. Furthermore, the emission lasts longer for about 15 ns and the current pulse maximum is clearly delayed by about 10 ns. Decreasing t pulse further, no streamer propagation appears at all. Overall, up to four distinct regimes were observed when decreasing the pulse width of the unipolar high voltage pulses [48,70].
The effect of the residual charge from the afterglow of the discharge breakdown during the positive voltage slope on the breakdown during the falling slope was investigated in more detail by the one-dimensional fluid model A. Starting from quasi-neutral conditions with an initial electron density of 10 6 cm -3 , model calculations have been performed until reaching a periodic state. Figure 4 shows the development of the spatially averaged electron density after the breakdown at the rising voltage slope (t = 0). After the strong peak at t = 0, the electron density decreases rapidly until the subsequent discharge at the falling voltage slope (t = t pulse ) occurs. For t pulse ≤ 10 µs, the residual electron density is still larger than 10 11 cm -3 at the beginning of the breakdown during the falling voltage slope. Such a large electron density in the prephase causes the changes in discharge development. In particular, this has an influence on the breakdown voltage and the current density maximum. Their dependence on the initial electron density n e,0 as a starting condition for the calculation of one breakdown using model A is presented in Figure 5. Both the breakdown voltage and the current density maximum decrease with increasing pre-ionization. The strongest reduction exists for initial electron densities between 10 11 cm -3 and 10 12 cm -3 . For values above 10 12 cm -3 , the current density maximum remains nearly constant, because the initial charges carry the entire discharge current.
In conclusion, the qualitative agreement of the experiments with the results obtained by model A shows that it is possible to control the level of the pre-ionization and the discharge development by varying the high voltage pulse width t pulse . Similar effects have been observed for variations of the oxygen concentration [68,71,72], the voltage slope [44], and the gas flow rate [73].

Influence of negative ions on diffuse discharge breakdown
The admixture of oxygen to the diffuse barrier discharge in helium results in a transition to a multiple-breakdown regime and, for larger oxygen concentrations, to the filamentary discharge mode [74]. This transition can be influenced by the electronegativity of oxygen, which causes the attachment of electrons and the formation of negative ions. For the transient barrier discharge, this can have several effects. First of all, the attachment of electrons reduces the number of electrons available for ionization processes, which should cause less positive ions and a lower secondary electron emission. Hence, the breakdown voltage, and, as a consequence, the velocity of the cathode-directed ionization front should increase. Secondly, negative ions have a larger probability to recombine with positive ions than energy-rich electrons, which should reduce the number of positive ions participating in secondary electron emission processes. This should increase the breakdown voltage as well and shorten the afterglow of the discharge. To quantify these effects, the measurement of the negative ion density is necessary. This is usually done by laser photodetachment experiments in combination with probe diagnostics [75] or microwave interferometry [76]. For barrier discharges, neither probe diagnostics nor microwave interferometry are suitable because of the large pressure and the small dimensions. However, the change in discharge development after the laser photodetachment of negative ions allows conclusions about the impact of negative ions [42]. Nonetheless, access to the negative ion densities, dynamics and kinetics is provided by modeling only [57].
The experimentally investigated discharge in configuration B was a diffuse discharge in helium with an admixture of 400 ppm oxygen and an applied voltage amplitude of 700 V. Under these conditions, two discharge breakdown events per half-period occurred. The first breakdown showed a cathode-directed ionizing front which is typical for the glow-like discharge. After the first breakdown, the gap voltage remained large enough to allow a second breakdown in the same half period. This second breakdown showed a Townsend-like behavior with an emission maximum in front of the anode. Regarding the laser photodetachment experiment, only an effect on the first glow-like breakdown was observed.
The effect of the laser photodetachment of negative ions on the electrical characteristics of the discharge is visualized in Figure 6a. The breakdown voltage is slightly reduced after the laser photodetachment of negative ions. This results in an earlier discharge breakdown onset and an earlier discharge current pulse maximum. Furthermore, the amount of transported charge during the discharge current pulse is reduced after the laser photodetachment. These effects occurred only when the laser was fired during the pre-phase of the discharge. Hence, the negative ion density exceeds the electron density only during the pre-phase. Apart from this, no change in discharge development was observed when the fundamental laser wavelength of 1064 nm was used instead of the second harmonic at 532 nm. The photons at 532 nm are able to detach O -, O - 2 , and O - 3 , the photons at 1064 nm can only detach the weakly bound electrons of O - 2 . Hence, since no effect occurs for 1064 nm, the dominant negative ion species must be O -and/or O - 3 . To draw conclusions about the absolute negative ion densities, the one-dimensional model B1 was used. The change in electrical characteristics after the laser photodetachment as determined by model B1 is shown in Figure 6b, where the calculated qualitative change is in good agreement with the experiment. Main features such as the lower breakdown voltage and the shift of the discharge current pulse maximum to earlier times are well visible. Nonetheless, the reproduction of the laser photodetachment effect from the experiment by the modeling is only possible with an additional assumption of negative ion formation at the negatively charged dielectric surface, similar to negative ion sources [77,78]. Otherwise, the negative ion density would be too low. Such a formation process might take place by a charge transfer e -(surface
of surface electrons to oxygen atoms or ozone molecules which have accumulated during the previous discharge breakdowns. The surface electrons are weakly bound with a binding energy in the order of 1 eV [79][80][81][82][83], which is lower than the electron affinities of oxygen atoms (1.46 eV) and ozone molecules (2.10 eV). A charge transfer to oxygen molecules is not considered, because their electron affinity is much lower (0.45 eV) and the experiment showed that O - 2 cannot be the dominant negative ion during the pre-phase. However, the two considered surface processes result in an increased negative ion density during the pre-phase. During the discharge current pulse, the attachment in the volume remains the main channel for the negative ion formation, which results in the low ratio of negative ions to electrons as in the model without the surface process. Hence, the laser photodetachment effect occurs only when the photodetachment is included during the pre-phase of the discharge in the modeling, but there is no effect when it is included during the discharge current pulse. As this is in good agreement with the experiment, the assumption of the negative ion formation at the negatively charged dielectric surface is reasonable. The need of this surface process to reproduce the experiment allows the further conclusion that the attachment in the volume is too low to produce a significant amount of negative ions. Additionally, the variation of the attachment rate coefficients in the modeling shows that the attachment of electrons to oxygen molecules is too low to reduce the electron density significantly [57]. The actual change in discharge dynamics by the laser photodetachment is presented in Figure 6c, where the densities of the most important species in the center are shown for an O -formation probability of γ O→O -= 10 -4 at the negatively charged dielectric. First of all, the negative ion density decreases significantly and the electron density increases during the laser pulse. The detached electrons are immediately accelerated towards the anode and form an electron beam that excites in turn metastable helium atoms. Their density increases by more than one order of magnitude during the laser pulse. Afterwards, the larger density of metastable helium atoms causes a larger O + 2 density due to Penning ionization, resulting in a larger secondary electron emission. Overall, the density of electrons and positive ions becomes larger in comparison to the modeling without the laser photodetachment of negative ions. This larger laser-induced pre-ionization results in a lower breakdown voltage and an earlier discharge current pulse maximum like in the experiment. The behavior is similar to the effect of the larger pre-ionization for the microdischarges in nitrogen with 0.1 vol% oxygen, as discussed in the previous section.
The laser photodetachment experiment and its comparison with the results obtained by model B1 show that the negative ion density clearly exceeds the electron density during the pre-phase of the discharge, probably because of the negative ion formation by a charge transfer of surface electrons to oxygen atoms or ozone molecules. If this is the case, the negative ions from the surface might become detached in the volume by collisions with other particles and act as a source of seed electrons in the volume. Such an effect was investigated by model B1 and is shown in Figures 7a and7b for an O -formation probability of γ O→O -= 10 -4 and in Figures 7c and7d for γ O→O -= 10 -3 . The discharges without the negative ion formation at the surface are shown for comparison. Here, the reflexion coefficient for O atoms is r O = 0.99, meaning that 99% of the lost oxygen atoms become stuck and only 1% form negative ions for γ O→O -= 10 -4 . For γ O→O -= 10 -3 , every tenth lost oxygen atom forms a negative ion. Regarding the spatially averaged particle densities in Figures 7b and7d, this results in negative ions densities of 10 7 cm -3 and 10 8 cm -3 for γ O→O -= 10 -4 and γ O→O -= 10 -3 , respectively. These large negative ion densities also cause larger electron densities due to collisional detachment in the volume. For γ O→O -= 10 -4 , there is only a slight increase in electron density, which has little effect on the O + 2 density and nearly no influence on the breakdown voltage and discharge current pulse. However, for γ O→O -= 10 -3 , the electron density is about one order of magnitude larger in the early pre-phase. As a consequence, the O + 2 density is clearly larger in the late pre-phase, which causes a larger secondary electron emission, a noticeably lower breakdown voltage, and a lower discharge current pulse maximum. Again, this behavior is the same as the influence of the larger pre-ionization resulting from residual charges in the volume from the previous breakdown in nitrogen-oxygen mixtures using short unipolar high voltage pulses. The lower breakdown voltage and slower discharge development should contribute to the homogenization and thus prevent the transition to the filamentary discharge. Furthermore, the participating oxygen atoms and ozone molecules accumulate during several discharge cycles. Hence, their diffusion in the lateral direction homogenizes the discharge as well.

Impact of released surface electrons on diffuse discharge breakdown
One key issue during the laser photodetachment experiments was the alignment of the laser beam through the discharge gap without any contact with the dielectric surfaces. If the laser beam touched the negatively charged dielectric surface, an even larger change in discharge development was observed [43] than after the laser photodetachment of negative ions in the volume. In Figure 8a, this laser-induced effect is shown for a discharge in nominally pure helium using configuration B. As for the laser photodetachment effect, the breakdown voltage is reduced, the discharge ignites earlier, and the lower discharge current pulse maximum is shifted to earlier times. The reason for this effect is the laser photodesorption of surface electrons from the cathodic dielectric. As mentioned in the previous section, the surface electrons are weakly bound on the negatively charged dielectric with a binding energy in the order of 1 eV [79][80][81][82][83]; hence, the laser photons having an energy of 2.3 eV should be able to release these surface electrons. In comparison with the laser photodetachment of negative ions, the laser photodesorption effect is much stronger for the same laser pulse energy. On the one hand, probably more electrons are released from the surface than detached from negative ions. On the other hand, the electrons released from the cathode have a longer way through the discharge gap and excite a larger number of metastable atoms on their way to the anode. Overall, the effect occurred only when firing the laser during the pre-phase of the discharge, in between the change in gap voltage polarity and the discharge breakdown. Only within this time frame the laser beam hit the negatively charged dielectric and the electric field had the right direction to accelerate the released electrons towards the opposite dielectric.
The large change in discharge current and gap voltage after the laser photodesorption of surface electrons is associated with a change in the spatio-temporally resolved emission as well. This is shown in Figures 8b and8c. After the laser photodesorption, the cathode-directed ionizing front starts earlier and has a lower velocity. Numerical calculations regarding the laser photodesorption by means of model B2 show that the additionally released electrons excite a large number of metastable helium atoms on their way to the cathode, which afterwards increase the number of positive ions by Penning ionization. This larger pre-ionization results in a lower breakdown voltage and a slower discharge development similar to the changes in discharge development after the laser photodetachment of negative ions presented in Section 3.2, and similar to the impact of large residual charge densities on the microdischarge breakdown in Section 3.1.
The discussed measurements were performed with the second harmonic of the Nd:YAG laser at 532 nm. Hence, the surface electrons are bound by less than 2.3 eV. To test the binding energy, a logical step forward was to perform the laser photodesorption experiment with the fundamental laser wavelength of 1064 nm, which corresponds to a photon energy of 1.17 eV. The results are shown in Figures 9a-9c. Considering first the electrical characteristics in (a), the breakdown voltage is even lower and an additional current peak appears just after the short laser pulse. The maximum of the actual discharge current pulse is even smaller than the maximum of this laser-induced current peak. Furthermore, the drop in gap voltage during the breakdown vanishes and the gap voltage remains nearly constant during the breakdown. The spatio-temporally resolved optical emission in Figures 9b and9c changes as well. The cathode-directed ionization front in (b) changes to a long-lasting and broad emission structure in front of the anode. This structure is reminiscent of the Townsend-like discharge with its emission maximum in front of the anode [20,35]. Other characteristics of the Townsend-like discharge, such as the longer lasting current pulse and the plateau of the gap voltage during the discharge [23], are also visible. Therefore, a transition from the glow-like discharge to the Townsendlike discharge is induced by the laser photodesorption of surface electrons.
The corresponding calculated results obtained by model B2 are presented in Figures 9d-9f. Instead of the emission rate, the excitation rate R ex of the corresponding He(3 3 S) state is plotted, which is nearly proportional to the emission rate for the short effective lifetimes ( 1 µs) in comparison to the time scale of the discharge development (>1 µs). To get a similar change in discharge characteristics as in Figure 9a, effectively about 0.1 nC of electrons are released with an effective delay of 1 µs from the negatively charged cathodic dielectric. This is about 6% of the totally deposited surface charge of 1.7 nC. Moreover, the additional delay is motivated by the delayed additional current peak just after the laser pulse in the experiment. This delay indicates that the electrons are probably not directly released by the laser with a wavelength of 1064 nm, but that they might be shifted to a higher surface state. From the higher surface state they can be easier released by thermal desorption or secondary electron emission. If they were released immediately from the surface in the modeling, then a much shorter and higher current pulse would appear at t lsr , which is in contrast to the experimental observations. This allows the conclusion that the surface electrons are stronger bound than by 1.17 eV. For a better determination of the binding energy, it is recommended to realize this experiment with a tunable laser.
Nevertheless, the laser photodesorption experiment demonstrates the importance of weakly bound surface electrons as an effective source of seed electrons for the discharge. The knowledge of the binding energy of surface electrons is essential to calculate secondary electron emission coefficients for charged dielectric surfaces or other rates concerning surface processes, e.g. for the proposed formation of negative ions at the negatively charged dielectric as discussed in the previous section.

Controlled discharge ignition using an illuminated semiconducting barrier
Apart from the influence of the pre-ionization on the breakdown mechanism discussed above, the surface memory effect inherently influences the breakdown behavior in barrier discharges. In particular, an inhomogeneous surface charge distribution on the dielectrics results in a localized enhancement of the gap voltage. Therefore, the breakdown voltage is reached earlier in lateral areas with a larger surface charge density and the discharge becomes re-ignited at these positions.
Besides the surface charge distribution, the gap voltage depends on the voltage drop across the dielectrics that is caused by the externally applied voltage. To allow a local manipulation of this voltage drop, one dielectric barrier was replaced by a semiconductor in configuration C. The charge transport in semiconductors is a nonlinear process itself. In our case, GaAs was used at a temperature of 188 K, which should ensure that the operation regime was not dominated by a negative differential resistance. In this way, the semiconductor can roughly be assumed as an ohmic resistor with an adaptable resistance due to temperature and illumination. Furthermore, at a temperature of about 188 K and without illumination, the capacitive reactance of the semiconductor dominated and the semiconductor acted like a common dielectric barrier. The semiconductor was illuminated by a halogen lamp, whereby the photoconductivity of the semiconductor increased due to the generation of electron-hole pairs induced by photons. As a consequence, the voltage drop across the semiconductor decreased due to the reduced thickness of the insulating part. Since the applied voltage remained the same, the voltage drop across the gap became larger in the illuminated area. However, since the ignition voltage in the gap depends only on the working gas, the applied ignition voltage U ign app is expected to decrease with increasing irradiance E e . As shown in Figure 10a, this expectation is borne out. For the maximal irradiance of 700 Wm -2 , the applied ignition voltage is reduced by more than 15 V and seems to have reached saturation.
To correlate the applied ignition voltage with the ignition gap voltage, the equivalent circuit diagram consisting of a series connection of capacitances is considered, as illustrated in Figure 10b. It results in
for the applied ignition voltage, depending on the thickness of the glass plate d glass , its relative permittivity ε glass = 7.6, the gap width g, the thickness of the insulating part of the gallium arsenide semiconductor d GaAs , its relative permittivity ε GaAs = 12.8 at 188 K [84], and the ignition gap voltage U ign gap . Without illumination, d GaAs is 1.1 mm, and U ign gap = 153.6 V for U ign app = 198 V. Maintaining this ignition gap voltage, the applied ignition voltage is calculated for various thicknesses of the insulating part of the gallium arsenide semiconductor d GaAs , which is presented in Figure 10c. A decrease in applied ignition voltage with decreasing d GaAs is visible, which corresponds to the decrease in Figure 10a up to an irradiance of 300 Wm -2 . The calculated voltage drop of about 13 V for the decrease in d GaAs to zero is close to the experimentally observed voltage drop of about 15 V. Hence, the illumination of the semiconductor produces enough electron-hole pairs to increase the conductivity significantly through the entire semiconductor. However, this is only a rough estimation because the simple model is not capable to describe the exponential decrease of the illumination intensity in the semiconductor, its non-linear resistive behavior or the influence of the illumination on the secondary electron emission.
Once the discharge was ignited, the variation of the irradiance was used to control the discharge emission intensity. Figure 11 shows the lateral distribution of the discharge emission, wherein the illuminated part is highlighted. In agreement with Figure 10, a discharge is not observed for irradiances below 200 Wm -2 and U app = 185 V. Above 200 Wm -2 , the discharge emission intensity increases with increasing irradiance. The larger illumination creates more electron-hole pairs causing a smaller voltage drop across the semiconductor and a larger gap voltage. The latter results in a more intense discharge emission. Furthermore, the lateral discharge area increases with irradiance, but the lateral extension of the discharge remains within the illuminated area.
A further extension of the lateral discharge area beyond the illumination area is possible with a larger applied voltage or with a larger illumination radius. The latter is presented in Figure 12. The small illumination radius of r illu = 1.4 mm causes only a small increase in gap voltage, and no discharge is observed. For radii from 4 mm to 14 mm, a discharge is ignited and its emission remains within the illumination radius with maximum discharge emission in the center. In addition to the increase in lateral extension of the discharge with increasing illumination radius, an increase in intensity maximum is visible up to the radius of 14 mm at otherwise constant irradiance. A further increase in illumination radius results in a further lateral extension of the discharge, but the intensity maximum in the center remains the same. Furthermore, the discharge becomes inhomogeneous for illumination radii larger than the radius of the electrodes, probably because of the influence of the electrode edges.
However, this example clearly proves the possibilities of controlling the lateral extent of barrier discharges by using an illuminated semiconductor as barrier. Similar observations have been made with patterned discharges driven by a square-wave voltage in helium-nitrogen mixtures [29], where the number of spots increased with illumination power density and illumination radius.

Conclusions and outlook
The influence of the pre-ionization on the ignition behavior and breakdown characteristics of diffuse and filamentary barrier discharges was analyzed experimentally and by numerical modeling. In the different experiments and models discussed here, a larger pre-ionization universally resulted in a lower breakdown voltage, an earlier discharge ignition and a lower current pulse maximum. Furthermore, it resulted in a slower discharge development and a lower current pulse maximum. The formation of a significant pre-ionization can be achieved by different means, as demonstrated in three distinct experiments. First of all, the residual charges from the previous discharge breakdown play a role, which was investigated for discharges in nitrogen-oxygen gas mixtures using short unipolar high voltage pulses. These residual charges cause a transition from the cathode-directed streamer breakdown to the simultaneous appearance of cathode-and anode-directed streamers. Secondly, a larger pre-ionization is present after the laser photodetachment of negative ions during the prephase, which reduces the breakdown voltage in diffuse barrier discharges operating in helium-oxygen mixtures. Most likely, the negative ion species O -and O - 3 are effectively formed at the dielectric that is charged with weakly bound surface electrons. Moreover, these negative ions can serve as a further source of seed electrons in the volume due to collisional detachment with the background gas. Another possibility to produce seed electrons is the photodesorption of surface electrons from the cathodic dielectric, because they induce electron avalanches on their way to the anodic dielectric. This effect can be used to trigger a discharge mode transition when the amount of released surface electrons is sufficiently large. The laser photodesorption experiments also proved that the surface electrons have a binding energy roughly between 1 eV and 2 eV on float glass; therefore, they should significantly increase the secondary electron emission rates and the flux of thermally desorbed electrons in comparison to uncharged dielectrics. The enhanced thermal desorption is a particularly important source of seed electrons during the early pre-phase in helium barrier discharges.
In addition to the experiments concerning the preionization, an experiment with an illuminated semiconductor as barrier was performed. Due to the photoconductivity of the semiconductor, the voltage drop across the barrier decreases and the gap voltage increases in the area of the illumination. This allows a discharge ignition at a lower applied voltage, as well as the control of the lateral extension of the discharge by the illumination radius and power density.
Despite the influence of the pre-ionization on the discharge is clear in the present work, some sources of the pre-ionization, e.g. the formation of negative ions on the surface or the desorption of surface electrons, are only qualitatively understood. In particular, the interaction of the discharge with the surface demands the systematic determination of surface properties as the binding energy of surface electrons and secondary electron emission coefficients. For instance, the detachment of surface electrons by a tunable laser, the investigation of the actual chemical composition of the impure dielectric surface and the comparison with solid state physics is an important path to pursue.
For applications, understanding the discharge mode transitions by controlling the pre-ionization is an important step forward. However, further experiments and their combination with numerical modeling are necessary to better understand the influence of the discharge regimes and the corresponding parameters on the plasma chemistry in the volume and on boundaries. This requires extending the experiments and models to reactive gas mixtures and to more complex boundaries as catalytic surfaces or liquid layers.

