Abstract
The impact of N 2 O admixtures on the inception and development of pulsed dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) in N 2 at atmospheric pressure is studied using optical and electrical diagnostics supported by 0D modelling of the reaction kinetics. The N 2 O concentration in the N 2 -N 2 O gas mixture was varied between virtually pure N 2 and 10 vol% N 2 O. A significant impact of N 2 O on the discharge characteristics was found for concentrations above 1000 ppm. In particular, a decrease of the transferred charge, and discharge energy and an increase of breakdown voltage, maximal discharge current, discharge emission diameter and velocity of the cathode-directed ionisation front (positive streamer) were observed. Additionally, a strong increase of breakdown voltage and discharge inception jitter accompanied by a decrease of the emission duration was found for N 2 O concentrations above 1 vol%. The modelling results indicate that for N 2 O concentrations in this range a transition from an electropositive to an electronegative regime takes place.

Introduction
Morphology and peculiarities of dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) are determined by several external parameters like discharge configuration, gas composition and electric control [1][2][3]. Generally, two different discharge regimes, namely filamentary and diffuse (or uniform) are known [4,5]. Avoiding filamentation, i.e. the formation of constricted discharge channels, to generate a diffuse DBD is interesting for homogeneous surface treatment at atmospheric pressure, i.e. without costly vacuum equipment [6]. It can be achieved by a sufficient pre-ionisation or charge carrier supply from the dielectric barriers [7][8][9][10]. Additionally, pre-ionisation significantly effects the development and properties of DBDs in the filamentary regime [11][12][13][14]. It has been shown that the pulse width and the amount of O 2 have a relevant impact on the pre-ionisation level in pulsed DBDs operated in N 2 -O 2 gas mixtures and, thus, on breakdown voltage, streamer velocity and discharge duration in a single-filament arrangement [15]. Pre-ionisation, which means the amount of charge carriers (especially electrons) before discharge inception, affects the discharge by changing the electric field distribution in the gap prior to the breakdown (space charges) and by providing additional free charge carriers, e.g. for electron impact ionisation.
In this contribution, a DBD in N 2 with admixtures of nitrous oxide (N 2 O) is studied in a single-filament configuration. DBDs in planar electrode arrangements in pure nitrogen are known to form a Townsend discharge, also known as atmospheric pressure Townsend discharge (APTD) [8,9,16]. However, it has not been studied in detail yet, whether pulsed operation in N 2 also leads to a uniform DBD and how the admixture of more complex molecules in pulsed DBDs affects their regime and breakdown characteristics. N 2 O is an oxide of nitrogen, which is chemically inert at standard conditions, and known as a greenhouse gas. From the physics perspective, it is interesting to study the influence of N 2 O on the discharge physics due to its electronegativity and reactivity. For example, O -ions are formed by dissociative electron attachment at low electron energies of about 1 eV [17], and the attachment cross section differ from those for oxygen significantly [18]. At elevated temperatures or in non-thermal plasmas, it acts as an oxidising agent due to the release of the oxygen atom by breaking its bond with the central nitrogen atom [19]. Therefore, it is not only used as an anaesthetic or analgesic, but also to increase the output of combustion engines [20]. Furthermore, it is also used in plasma enhanced chemical vapour deposition (PE-CVD) of oxide layers [21], and other thin films [22]. These are low pressure processes, but alternatives for the operation at elevated pressures could be interesting for industry [23].
The effect of N 2 O addition in a sinusoidal-operated APTD has been studied and compared with the effect of adding O 2 . Both admixtures finally lead to filamentation, but the threshold concentration for N 2 O is an order of magnitude higher (i.e. about 1200 ppm) than for O 2 for sine-driven DBDs [24]. In this context, N 2 O can be considered as a compound having a similar influence on the discharge physics as a precursor.
Consequently, this work is dedicated to study the discharge characteristics and modes of pulsed, single-filament DBDs in dependence of N 2 O admixture to N 2 , and provides a comparison to the known impact of O 2 in N 2 . Furthermore, basic processes were analysed using 0D modelling of reaction kinetics for varying N 2 O concentration to support the interpretation of the experimental results.

Experimental set-up
A symmetric double-sided DBD arrangement with half-spherical alumina-covered metal electrodes was used in the experiments. Due to this configuration, the filament was spatially fixed in the gap. The electrodes with a gap width of 1 mm were located in a vacuum tight glass cell (see figure 1). The dielectric barrier thickness was about 0.5 mm, which was determined by x-ray measurements of the electrodes. Before filling the cell with a specific gas mixture, it was evacuated by a turbo pump (Pfeiffer TSH261) down to about 10 -6 mbar. An additional membrane pump (Pfeiffer MVP 020-3 AC) was used as a process pump in a bypass to set the pressure in the cell to 1 bar. The total gas flow through the cell was set to 100 sccm by mass flow controllers connected to gas cylinders (N 2 , purity 5.0). The investigated gas mixtures were varied from virtually pure N 2 to 10 vol% N 2 O in N 2 . The O 2 impurity of the used gas mixtures was examined by an oxygen sensor (ZIROX SGM 7.4), and the measured impurity was below 30 ppm O 2 , i.e. virtually pure N 2 means 30 ppm O 2 .
Unipolar square wave pulses with 10 kV amplitude, 10 kHz repetition frequency ( f rep ), and a pulse width of 10 µs (pulse source DEI PVX-4110) were used to drive the DBDs. A fast iCCD camera (Andor iStar DH734-18U-A3) and a streak camera system (Hamamatsu C5680-21C) connected to a long-distance microscope recorded the DBD structure and the spatio-temporal development through a quartz glass window, see figure 2. The spatial resolution for both cameras was about 2 µm. The temporal resolution of the iCCD and streak camera systems were 2 ns and 50 ps, respectively. Electrical measurements were performed with fast current and voltage probes (Tektronix CT1, and P6015A, respectively), and recorded with an oscilloscope (Tektronix DPO 7254C). More details on the diagnostics can be found in [25].

Experimental results and discussion


Electrical characterisation and discharge inception statistics
The applied asymmetrical HV pulse and the corresponding total discharge current are displayed in figure 3 exemplarily for virtually pure N 2 . There is one single discharge event at  the rising and falling slope, respectively [25,26]. The absolute current maximum is higher at the rising slope compared to the falling slope. This is caused by the increased pre-ionisation due to a shorter time between rising and falling slopes than between falling and rising ones (10 µs versus 90 µs) induced by an asymmetrical HV pulse [13].
The discharge current I DBD , i.e. the measured total current minus the capacitive displacement current [25,27], is displayed for different N 2 O concentrations in figure 4. At the rising slope, the discharge current waveform is only slightly affected by the N 2 O admixture up to 1 vol%. For 10 vol% N 2 O, however, the discharge current peak is roughly doubled and delayed within the slope, while its decay time drops to approx. one third compared to 1 vol.%. The admixture of electronegative N 2 O favors electron attachment, which causes significant loss of electrons. The reason for the increased maxima is discussed later when the discharge inception statistics is analysed (see figures 5 and 6). At the falling slope, the discharge current waveforms for virtually pure N 2 and 1 vol% N 2 O in N 2 feature the same peak value and rise time, only the decay time is shorter for 1 vol% N 2 O in N 2 compared to virtually pure N 2 . For 0.1 vol% N 2 O concentration, the current peak is smoothed, i.e. its maximum is reduced and its width has broadened, while its rise time is longer. Additionally, at this concentration, the discharge current rises earlier. Similar effects were found for DBDs in N 2 -O 2 mixtures, and were explained by higher pre-ionisation [13,28]. An increased pre-ionisation, i.e. high residual charge carrier density in the gap leads to a change in the electric field distribution and provides sufficient start electrons in the gap prior to breakdown at the falling slope. This significantly slows down the streamer-like propagation (which is related to the current rise [29]) and increases the emission duration, as described later in section 3.2.
The impact of N 2 O admixture on the discharge inception statistics is shown in figure 5. For the statistical data evaluation, 12 000 voltage and current waveforms of single discharge events were recorded for each N 2 O concentration at the rising and falling slope, respectively. At the rising slope, the distribution of the temporal discharge inception is of Gaussian shape up to 1 vol% N 2 O in N 2 . This indicates 'secured' breakdown conditions within the HV slope between 6.7 and 7.5 kV, i.e. no outliers at higher voltages occur. For 10 vol% N 2 O concentration, higher voltages are necessary for the ignition, i.e. the discharge inception distribution is broadened and shifted towards higher applied voltages, see figure 5(b). This effect was obtained for N 2 O admixtures 5 vol% at the rising slope. The same behaviour was found at the rising slope for 6 vol% O 2 in N 2 in an similar single-filament DBD arrangement powered by the same HV pulse as reported in [15]. This effect was attributed to the change of breakdown conditions induced by the admixture (i.e. different reduced first Townsend coefficient depending on the gas mixture) accompanied by an overall reduction of the pre-ionisation (lower transferred charge), which hampers the discharge inception, and consequently destabilises the discharge. At the falling slope, however, all temporal discharge inception distributions up to 10 vol% N 2 O in N 2 are of Gaussian shape. The discharge inception occurs in narrow applied voltage intervals of about 1 kV. Regarding the breakdown voltage, the difference between the HV amplitude and the value of the applied voltage must be considered for the falling slope, which is due to the electric field induced by residual surface charges on the dielectric from the previous discharge at the rising slope. Consequently, the breakdown voltage at the falling slope is the difference between the HV amplitude and the applied voltage, i.e. a lower applied voltage indicates higher breakdown voltage, see  figure 6(a). Furthermore, the discharge inception delay is lower for 0.1 vol% N 2 O in N 2 , i.e. the breakdown voltage is reduced. For pulsed operation with ns rise times, even a short discharge inception delay leads to higher applied voltages at the instant of breakdown, which additionally leads to electron amplification and higher current maxima. Consequently, the strong increase of the discharge current maxima at the rising slope for N 2 O admixtures 5 vol% is caused by both, the increase applied voltage due to the discharge inception delay, and the decreased overall pre-ionisation. On the other hand, the effect of N 2 O admixture on the discharge current ampl itude is weaker, since the higher pre-ionisation at the falling slope prevents long discharge inception delays (as can be seen in figure 6).
The discharge inception statistics were used to obtain the mean applied breakdown voltage (centre of Gaussian fit) and the mean maximal (absolute) discharge current values. The applied breakdown voltages V b for the rising and falling slopes are displayed in figure 6(a). Here, the error bars show the total voltage range in which discharges occur; for 5 and 10 vol% N 2 O, the maximal V b at the rising slope is 10 kV, i.e. at the amplitude of the applied voltage. Up to 1 vol% N 2 O, there is no change of V b within the error bars at the rising slope, while it decreases at the falling slope up to around 0.5 vol% N 2 O, and slightly increases for higher N 2 O concentrations. The absolute discharge current maxima I max DBD were analysed for each N 2 O concentration at both slopes, see figure 6(b). A similar trend as for V b values was obtained, because breakdown voltage and current maximum are correlated. The peak values at the falling slope are always lower compared to the rising slope. Above 1 vol% N 2 O, the breakdown voltages significantly increase, which leads to roughly doubled discharge current maxima. The error bars, which show the standard deviation of the I max DBD distribution, indicate a strong jitter of the maximal discharge currents above 1 vol% N 2 O, while they are within the data symbols for lower N 2 O concentrations. This shows clearly that a temporally stable discharge inception is accompanied by a low I max DBD jitter. Consequently, the strong temporal discharge jitter is accompanied by a huge spread in I max DBD for [N 2 O] > 1 vol%. At the falling slope, I max DBD is generally lower compared to the rising slope, and it slightly decreases up to 0.5 vol% N 2 O; from 1 to 10 vol%, I max DBD increases, but only by 20%. This result is an additional confirmation of discharge stabilisation by higher pre-ionisation at the falling slope.  The averaged electrical data was used to determine the mean transferred charge Q at the rising and falling slopes by integrating the discharge current; the results are shown in figure 7(a). Up to 1000 ppm N 2 O, the transferred charge remains at about 2 nC, while for higher N 2 O admixtures, Q decreases rapidly to below 0.5 nC for 10 vol% N 2 O. Although the maximal discharge current is much higher for [N 2 O] > 1 vol% (see figure 4), the faster decay of the discharge current pulse leads to lower transferred charges. The consumed electrical energy E el per voltage period was determined by the Q-V plot method [1,30]. In figure 7, E el and the mean consumed electrical power P el = f rep • E el are displayed for the investigated N 2 O concentrations. These quantities feature a maximum around 10 ppm N 2 O in N 2 , and strongly decrease for [N 2 O] > 1 vol%, i.e. the behaviour is similar to the transferred charge. This sharp drop indicates a severe change of the discharge characteristics, since the consumed discharge energy/ power is a crucial parameter for the efficiency of a DBD [1].
In summary, the analysis of the electrical data implies that the electrical discharge parameters are substantially influenced by the N 2 O concentration, especially for [N 2 O] > 1 vol%, which is similar to the impact of O 2 admixture to N 2 [15]. The admixture of N 2 O increases the breakdown voltage by reducing the amount of free electrons due to attachment processes, which is a result of the electronegativity of N 2 O. This will be investigated in section 4 by 0D modelling. In the following section, the impact of N 2 O admixture on the discharge development is analysed.

Spatio-temporal discharge development and deduced electrical quantities
The spatially resolved emission structure and the corresponding spatio-temporal discharge development at rising and falling slopes are exemplarily displayed for 0.1 and 10 vol% N 2 O in N 2 in figure 8. For all investigated N 2 O admixtures (and for virtually pure N 2 ), the pulsed-operated DBD remains filamentary. This is most likely a consequence of the fast changing electric field due to the steep HV slope (approx. 200 V ns -1 ), which induces a streamer-like breakdown. The main difference to sinusoidal operation-resulting in diffuse discharges at virtually pure N 2 [16] and low N 2 O admixtures [24]-is the short pre-phase. Therefore, slow ionisation processes (e.g. step-wise ionisation, Penning-ionisation, secondary emission, associative ionisation) are not significantly influencing the fast breakdown. In the filamentary mode, the 2D discharge structure features a thin, constricted channel in the volume and spreading multiple surface discharge channels on the dielectric surface. The expansion of these surface discharges and the overall emission intensity decreases significantly for N 2 O concentrations above 1 vol% N 2 O, see the iCCD images in figures 8(a) and (b) in comparison to (c) and (d). The iCCD single shots were used to obtain the discharge channel emission diameter. For that purpose, the full width at half maximum (FWHM) values of radial profiles in the gap centre (axially averaged over 150 µm) were determined of 25 individual discharge events for each N 2 O admixture at both slopes. The mean d FWHM values are displayed with their statistical spread (error bars indicate the standard deviation) in figure 9(a). Generally, the emission diameter is higher at the rising slope compared to the falling one.
Furthermore, d FWHM slightly decreases with increasing N 2 O concentration up to around 1000 ppm, and increases for higher N 2 O admixtures, which is more pronounced at the rising slope, especially for [N 2 O] > 1 vol%. A similar behaviour, both for the absolute values of d FWHM and its increase with N 2 O concentration, was found for O 2 in N 2 [15]. The emission diameter values at the rising slope for N 2 O admixtures above 1 vol% feature a strong jitter, which is absent for all discharges at the falling slope. This corresponds to the behaviour of the temporal discharge inception, which was previously discussed and attributed to the different pre-ionisation levels (see figure 5).
The combination of the discharge diameters d FWHM and the discharge current maxima I max allows an estimation of the maximal current densities j max according to
(
Since the obtained discharge diameters are the FWHM of the emission profiles, the region, where emission occurs is wider. To address this point, the d FWHM values were used as the radius of the emission region (limited by ≈1% of each global intensity maximum). It was assumed that the current is flowing homogeneously through the (radial) area, where emission occurs. However, in reality, the current density has a non-rectangular radial profile, but this is a reasonable estimation to obtain the order of magnitude of j max in the gap centre. Figure 9(b) shows that the derived values are in the same range as those reported in [31], where an advanced method was used for determination of j max in a similar pulsed DBD. While the maximal current density at the rising slope is more or less unaffected by the N 2 O concentration, it features a distinct minimum around 5000 ppm at the falling slope. The discharge current maxima are the same for 1000 and 5000 ppm (see figure 6(b)), while the diameter is increased for the latter concentration, which leads consequently to a lower current density.
The spatio-temporal discharge development was recorded by a streak camera having its entrance slit aligned with the discharge channel in the volume. A streak image is 1D in space (i.e. the discharge development along the discharge channel) over time. The discharge phases of a filamentary DBD in molecular gas mixtures principally start with the Townsend pre-phase (not shown here, see e.g. [13,32]) followed by the cathode-directed ionisation front (positive streamer mech anism), the subsequent transient glow phase, and finally the decay phase [33][34][35]. These phases were found at both slopes for all investigated N 2 O concentrations. However, there are significant differences between the streamer propagation at the rising and falling slopes, e.g. the propagation velocity is lower, and the spatial inception point is shifted in direction of the cathode at the falling slope, as indicated by the grey arrows in figure 8. Additionally, the discharge emission duration is longer at the falling slope compared to the rising slope, which is a consequence of the higher pre-ionisation as reported in detail in [13,28] for N 2 -O 2 gas mixtures.
Furthermore, the impact of N 2 O admixture on the discharge characteristics was evaluated by analysing the discharge emission duration t emission FWHM and the maximal streamer propagation velocity v max . The emission duration was determined using the FWHM of spatially averaged, spectrally integrated emission profiles (see figure 10(a)). The major part of the emission in DBDs containing nitrogen is the second positive system of N 2 (SPS, N 2 (C) state with ≈11 eV excitation energy), i.e. the spectrally integrated emission represent mainly the SPS, see emission spectra in e.g. [25,34]. As can be seen in figure 10(a), the emission duration at the rising slope is around 3 ns up to 1 vol% N 2 O in N 2 , and decreases for higher N 2 O concentrations. For discharges at the falling slope, however, the t emission FWHM values increase to ≈5.5 ns up to 5000 ppm N 2 O, and decrease for higher admixtures. A similar behaviour was found for the maximal streamer velocities (determined 100 µm in front of the cathode). The v max feature a minimum at the falling slope for 1000 ppm N 2 O in N 2 , which is hardly visible at the rising slope (see figure 10(b)); although, the streamer velocities are generally lower at the falling slope because of the higher preionisation. This corresponds well with the minimum and the slowest rise of the discharge current at the falling slope for 1000 ppm, since the discharge current peak and its rise time is related to the streamer propagation velocity [13,29,36]. Additionally, the streamer velocity is connected via the electric field strength with the discharge diameter [31,37]. This explains the lower diameters at the falling slope (higher preionisation), i.e. a lower streamer velocity results in a lower streamer diameter, which determines the discharge channel dimensions [36].
Referring to the presented experimental data, it can be stated that the N 2 O admixture to N 2 has a significant impact on the electrical characteristics as well as the breakdown and further development of DBDs like the admixture of O 2 to N 2 [15]. Furthermore, there is a 'bidirectional' effect of N 2 O concentration, i.e. some quantities feature a maximum or minimum at a specific amount of N 2 O admixture (between 1000 and 5000 ppm), which is especially pronounced at the falling slope, i.e. for higher pre-ionisation. A similar impact was reported for O 2 in N 2 in [28]. The experimental results suggest that the pre-ionisation before breakdown at the falling slope is highest for N 2 O admixtures in the range from 1000 to 5000 ppm. Because of the relatively long off-time before breakdown at the rising slope and the resulting low pre-ionisation level, this bidirectional effect is less distinct at the rising slope. Generally, the experimental results raise the question, which species are responsible for the pre-ionisation, and whether they are determined by the N 2 O admixture. Consequently, an analysis on this subject by 0D modelling was done, as presented in the following section.

Analysis of the impact of N 2 O admixture in N 2 by 0D modelling of the reaction kinetics
As mentioned in the previous section, the volume pre-ionisation plays a crucial role for the characteristics of DBDs. The pre-ionisation is determined by charge carrier generation and loss processes, i.e. ionisation, recombination and attachment in the volume. To investigate the impact of the N 2 O concentration on these processes, a 0D model was applied to provide a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms. After a brief description of the used model, the modelling results are used to explain the experimental findings reported in the previous section.

Model description
A global collision-radiation model was used to study the impact of N 2 O admixtures to the DBD under consideration, with focus on the charge carrier formation. The model comprises the rate equations
for the densities n j of electrons ( j = e) and all relevant heavy particle species with index j in N 2 O-N 2 gas mixtures. A list of all considered species is given in table 1. The source term S j in equation ( 2) describes the gain and loss of species j due to collision and radiation processes and has the form
Here, ν j,r and β j,r are the respective stoichiometric coefficient and partial reaction order of species j in reaction r and k r denotes the rate coefficient of reaction r. The complete set of considered reactions includes about 520 processes and is based on the reaction kinetics scheme of Kossyi et al [38].
In addition to the rate equation (2), the electron energy balance equation
for the energy density of electrons was solved in order to couple the measured power density P directly into the model.
Here, the source term S describes the gain and loss of electron energy in collision processes per volume unit and time and takes the form
where h r represents the change in electron energy for reaction r. The coupling between equations ( 2) and ( 4) is given through the particle densities in the energy source term S and the rate coefficients k r of collision processes depending on the mean electron energy ¯ = /n e . Similar global reaction kinetic models have previously been applied for the investigation of the temporal behaviour of plasma species [39,40].

Modelling results with focus on electron loss processes
To assure realistic conditions for the reaction kinetic modelling, the instantaneous power density P(t) deposited into the plasma (see equation ( 4)) was determined from the measured voltage and current. For that purpose, it was assumed that the power is mainly deposited in the discharge channel, i.e. a cylinder with a volume of π • d 2 FWHM • d gap . Since the discharge diameter and the current amplitude are increasing with the N 2 O concentration (see figures 6(b) and 9(a)), the resulting maximal power densities are similar for different N 2 O admixtures (≈ 7 • 10 6 W cm -3 ).
However, the decrease of the current pulse duration for high N 2 O content (see figure 4) leads to a much shorter time of power input for 10 vol% N 2 O, compared to virtually pure N 2 , see figures 11(a) and (b). To address this issue, two difference input power density waveforms were considered for the modelling, i.e. one for the longest power input as occurring for pure N 2 (figure 11(a)), and one for the shortest pulse occurring for 10 vol% N 2 O in N 2 (figure 11(b)). However, the calculations were performed for the complete range of N 2 O concentration for both power input cases, i.e. from virtually pure N 2 to 10 vol% N 2 O in N 2 , to study the pure effect of changing gas mixture on the charge carrier densities.
The time-averaged charge carrier densities are shown in figures 11(c) and (d) as a function of the N 2 O concentration for the two different power input cases. For ions, all considered positive and negative ion species (see table 1) were summed up and the summarised densities are denoted by n pos and n neg , respectively, i.e. the plasma density is given by
Up to 100 ppm N 2 O in N 2 , the negative ion density is neglectable. For N 2 O concentrations above 1000 ppm, however, the density of negative ions strongly increases and negative ions become the major negative charge carrier species. The plasma density features a minimum at around 1000 ppm for both input pulses, just when the negative ion density equals the electron density. The overall plasma density is minimal at 1000 ppm for both cases, only the crossing of electron density and negative ion density is slightly shifted to higher N 2 O concentrations for the longer input pulse, since electrons are
Neutrals in electronically excited state
generated for a longer period of time. Moreover, the maximal plasma density was found for the highest N 2 O concentration for both power density input pulses, but absolute values for the short input pulse are generally lower. This corresponds to the exper imentally obtained reduction of transferred charge with increasing N 2 O admixture (see figure 7(a)). Generally, the overall (electron) pre-ionisation is decreasing with increasing N 2 O concentration, when comparing the modelling results for the long input pulse with the short one. Due to their high mobility and therefore direct response to the electric field, free electrons essentially determine the breakdown process.
Especially for ns-pulsed DBDs, where the duration of prebreakdown phase is strongly limited by the fast change of the applied voltage (≈ 50 ns versus ∼1 µs for sinusoidal operation [34]), the presence of electrons in the discharge gap just before breakdown strongly affects the DBD. Consequently, the reaction kinetic model was used to get insight in the electron loss processes in dependence on the N 2 O concentration. For this purpose, the relative contribution of the different electron loss processes, namely recombination with positive ions and attachment to electronegative atoms (oxygen) and molecules (O x and N x O y ), were analysed for the two aforementioned power density input pulses as a function of N 2 O in N 2 , see figures 12(a) and (b). For both input pulses, the electron loss by attachment dominates for N 2 O above 1 vol%, while for 10 vol% N 2 O, more than 90% of the electron loss is due to attachment. In figures 12(c)-(f), the relative contributions of the different electron loss channels to the total electron loss are compared, i.e. electron recombination and attachment. The relative contrib ution of electron loss processes including species mentioned in table 1, but not occurring in figures 12(c)-(f), is below 10 -11 . The major recombination process is the dissociative recombination of the cluster ion N +
which is mainly formed by a three-body reaction
This is due to the higher rate coefficient of reaction (7) compared to dissociative recombination of N + 2 , which is caused by the lower bounding energy of the cluster ion [38,41], and the fast loss of N + 2 ions due to reaction (8). The electron recombination with N + 4 is at least two orders of magnitude higher than other recombination processes for all N 2 O concentrations. For N 2 O admixture above approx. 5000 ppm, the electron recombination with N 2 O + is second highest, although the electron loss by recombination is strongly decreasing for these concentrations, since attachment is taking over (see figures 12
was identified by the model as the main electron loss process for higher N 2 O concentrations [17]. The low binding energy of the N 2 -O bound (around 1.2 eV [19]) compared to N 2 (around 9.8 eV [42]) favors the dissociation of the oxygen atom. Above 1000 ppm N 2 O, the dissociative attachment to N 2 O is at least two orders of magnitude higher than all other attachment processes. The second highest electron loss is due to the three-body attachment to NO:
) Comparing the temporally averaged, relative electron losses in figure 12, no substantial difference between the two used power density input pulses was found.
Additionally, the temporal development of the electron loss rate has to be investigated to see the different impact during the active discharge phase and the afterglow. Since the general behaviour does not significantly differ between the long and short power input pulse, in figure 13, the total electron loss rate and the respective loss rates for recombination and attachment processes are displayed for virtually pure N 2 and three different N 2 O concentrations for the long power input pulse only. For virtually pure N 2 , the attachment is several orders of magnitude lower than the recombination during the input pulse and in the afterglow, since attachment is only due to the O 2 impurity. This changes for 1000 ppm N 2 O admixture. Here, recombination is the major electron loss process during the active discharge phase and the first couple of micro seconds after the end of the power input, but during the discharge inception and in the afterglow, attachment is dominant (please note the log. time scale in figure 13). The instant, when attachment becomes dominant at around t = 3 µs, is not dependent on the duration of the power input pulse, i.e. this is clearly an effect of gas composition. For 1 vol% N 2 O concentration, attachment is the major electron loss process during the breakdown phase; but just after the power input drops, for a short time recombination becomes dominant. During the afterglow attachment becomes the dominant electron loss process, again. The effect of decreasing attachment loss after the end of the power input pulse is caused by the sensitive dependence of the corresponding rate coefficient on the mean electron energy and can be seen for 1000 ppm N 2 O, too. Attachment is the dominant electron process for the highest investigated N 2 O concentration of 10 vol%; in this case, the recombination is lower for all times of the power density input pulse and during the afterglow. Furthermore, the attachment rate maximum is higher compared to the lower N 2 O concentrations, i.e. the discharge is completely dominated by negative ions. All in all, the analysis of the temporally-resolved electron loss rates reveals a transition between the domination of attachment and recombination during the power density input pulse and in the afterglow, which depends on the N 2 O concentration. The electron loss in the afterglow determines the number of remaining electrons before the following discharge, i.e. the volume pre-ionisation. Consequently, the temporal development of the electron density n e as function of N 2 O admixture was analysed in the afterglow for both used power density input pulses. In figure 14, the temporal change of n e is shown for a time-range of 100 µs. This time range corresponds to a full period of the applied voltage in the experiment (see figure 3). An increase of the N 2 O admixture leads to a much faster decay of the electron density within few micro seconds after breakdown, which is caused by increased electron attachment. After 10 µs, i.e. when the discharge at the falling slope occurs, the electron densities are at least one and a half orders of magnitude higher than after 100 µs. The higher electron density leads to the temporal stabilisation of the discharge inception accompanied by a reduction of breakdown voltage. The impact of O 2 admixtures to N 2 in the same discharge configuration reported in [15] features similar results for the discharge jitter, transferred charges, discharge current maxima, emission diameters, and velocities of the cathodedirected ionisation front. The similar effects for N 2 O and O 2 admixture to N 2 can be partly explained by the reduction of pre-ionisation. However, in oxygen electron attachment and collisional quenching are responsible for this behaviour. It has to be mentioned that the increase of the discharge inception jitter in combination with the used steep high voltage slope is also of importance, since even a small discharge inception delay leads to a much higher breakdown voltage, which is the case both for O 2 and N 2 O admixtures.
The so-called 'bidirectional' impact of N 2 O concentration on some quantities between 100 and 1000 ppm, however, could not be reproduced by the 0D model, e.g. the electron densities for N 2 O concentrations between virtually pure N 2 and 1000 ppm N 2 O monotonously decrease with increasing N 2 O admixture. A similar 'bidirectional' behaviour was reported in [28] for O 2 in N 2 , although the intrinsic processes differ significantly between N 2 O and O 2 admixture. In N 2 -O 2 gas mixtures, this effect is related to the different rate coefficients for ionisation and recombination of the major positive molecular ions of nitrogen and oxygen molecules (N [38,41,[43][44][45], which is not the case for N 2 O admixtures to N 2 (since no significant amount of positive oxygen ions is formed).
In summary, the 0D model provides a reasonable explanation for the experimental results obtained for N 2 O concentrations above 1000 ppm, i.e. the transition from electropositive (electron loss dominated by recombination) to electronegative (electron loss dominated by attachment) conditions and a massive reduction of the electron density prior to breakdown by increasing N 2 O admixture.

Summary and outlook
Pulsed DBDs were investigated in a single-filament arrangement for varying N 2 O admixture to N 2 at atmospheric pressure. The range from virtually pure N 2 up to 10 vol% N 2 O in N 2 was considered. The analysis was carried out by electrical and optical measurements accompanied by modelling of the reaction kinetic processes. The main impact of N 2 O admixture is its electronegativity, which change the discharge characteristics. Overall, it was found that the DBD is filamentary for all studied gas mixtures, even for virtually pure N 2 , which is in contrast to sinusoidal-driven DBDs, where diffuse discharges occur. The filamentation for pulsed operation is mainly caused by the fast changing electric field during the steep HV slope.
However, it was observed that N 2 O admixtures higher than 1000 ppm strongly affect the characteristics of single-filament DBDs. For N 2 O admixtures beyond this level, the mean electron density significantly drops and negative ions become the dominant negatively charged species. This fundamental change of the plasma properties goes along with a decrease of transferred charge, consumed electrical energy and discharge duration. Furthermore, an increase of the discharge diameter, the streamer velocity, and the temporal discharge jitter was observed for N 2 O admixtures higher than 1000 ppm.
In the transition region between electropositive conditions ([N 2 O] <100 ppm, electron loss dominated by recombination) and electronegative conditions ([N 2 O] > 1vol%, electron loss dominated by attachment), some measured quantities feature a bidirectional behaviour: For higher preionisation at the falling slope of the applied voltage pulse, the maximal discharge current, breakdown voltage, discharge current density, and streamer velocity feature a local minimum in that range of N 2 O admixtures. In contrast, the discharge duration features a pronounced local maximum. A similar bidirectional effect has been observed before in DBDs with changing O 2 /N 2 ratio, although the underlying effects are expected to be different for admixtures of O 2 and N 2 O to N 2 , respectively.
The next steps should include the investigation of sinusoidal DBDs in N 2 -N 2 O gas mixtures to gain insight in the transition between diffuse and filamentary mode in a singlefilament arrangement, which differs significantly from the common plate-to-plate DBD configuration. Furthermore, from the modelling perspective, the discharge development in dependence of the N 2 O admixure should be investigated using time and space resolved models that are able to selfconsistently capture the dissipated power.

