Abstract
The plane-to-plane dielectric barrier discharge within 5 mm air gap driven by repetitive nanosecond pulses is studied. A water resistance (WR) is connected in parallel with the discharge circuit. For the discharge without the WR, two reverse discharges occur in the falling front of the voltage pulse, and besides, the primary discharge occurs in the rising front. For the discharge with the WR, only the primary discharge takes place, and the voltage waveform is changed into the unipolar positive voltage pulse with the elevated fall time. Additionally, the discharge with the WR displays the intermediate between the traditional diffuse and filamentary modes. Moreover, the uniformity of the discharge with the WR is increased as the pulse repetition frequency decreases from 1200 Hz to 100 Hz. The above observations in the discharge with the WR are mainly attributed to the increase in the residual charge at the inception of the following pulsed discharge.

I. INTRODUCTION
During the past few decades, atmospheric pressure lowtemperature plasmas have attracted much attention as they have enormous application potential from plasma processing to biomedicine and aerospace. 1 A popular method to generate this kind of plasma in atmospheric air is the dielectric barrier discharge (DBD), which combines the advantages of nonequilibrium plasmas with atmospheric pressure operation. Usually, DBD at atmospheric pressure is driven by the alternating-voltage, with the frequency ranging from a few tens of Hz to several kHz. Filamentary discharge is the most common DBD mode in atmospheric air 2 although the diffuse or homogeneous DBD, sometimes called as atmospheric pressure glow-like discharge, 3 has been obtained experimentally. 4 Under the filamentary mode, the DBD is characterized by a large number of cylindrical-shaped microdischarges of nanosecond duration. 1 Charges accumulate locally on the dielectric surfaces at the positions of the microdischarges. This process results in an electric field opposed to the applied field, and eventually, it leads to the discharge current termination within 10 ns to 100 ns after the breakdown. 1 The role of surface charges in DBD was widely investigated. 5,6 For instance, it was reported that the trapped charges on the dielectric surface strongly affected the charge distribution within the gas gap. Recently, adsorbed electrons on alumina dielectric have been found trapped in the shallow trap, which mainly has an energy of less than or around 1 eV. 7 This means that the trapped electrons are far more easily removed from the dielectric than the intrinsic electrons. 8 Therefore, the trapped electrons can be considered as a seed electron reservoir in the pre-breakdown phase, which has been experimentally clarified in traditional alternating-voltage DBD. 9 Recently, scientists have turned interest to the DBD excited by repetitive nanosecond pulses owing to its advantages in producing large-scale atmospheric pressure non-equilibrium plasmas. First, nanosecond pulsed DBD is typically an over-voltage breakdown discharge because of the fast rise time. 10,11 This results in the simultaneous generation of numerous electron avalanches over the entire discharge space. Second, because of fast rise time and short pulse duration of the nanosecond pulses, most energy is used to accelerate the electrons instead of the ions with much higher mass. 10,12,13 Hence, the nanosecond pulsed discharge has an advantage in producing highly reactive air plasmas. Third, nanosecond pulsed DBD is capable of improving the discharge stability, when the pulse duration is shorter than the characteristic time needed for the instability development.
It is widely reported that following the primary discharge at the rising front or at the top of the voltage pulse, the secondary discharge with inverse polarity is induced at the falling front of the pulsed voltage. 14,15 Noticeably, the occurrence of the reverse discharge is based on the residual space charges and accumulated surface charges remaining from the primary discharge. The reverse discharge has been observed in a wide range of gas pressures, gas compositions, and different geometries of the electrodes. Additionally, the reverse discharge has occurred in both homogeneous and filamentary discharges, as long as high-voltage pulses with a fast falling slope are applied to the DBD reactor. 15 For instance, no reverse discharge was exhibited during the elevated fall time of the bipolar pulsed voltage, and thus, the rapid fall time was believed to be important for the occurrence of the reverse discharge. 16 The influence of the falling rate on the reverse discharge was experimentally investigated. 17 It was found that the reverse discharge with higher intensity occurred under the higher falling rate.
Pulse repetition frequency (PRF) is an important parameter of the applied nanosecond voltage pulses, and its effects on the DBD characteristics have been extensively investigated. 11,18,19 It was confirmed that significant concentrations of residual particles would be formed during the repetitive nanosecond pulses. Then, these residual particles would present the memory effect that affected the development of gas breakdown. 19,20 Here, the memory effect refers to the influence of residual particles survived from the previous discharge on the occurrence of the next breakdown. 1 The memory effect would exist for several seconds or longer in some extreme conditions after the plasma is extinguished. [20][21][22] Numerical simulation on the characteristics of the nanosecond pulsed DBD concluded that the current density decreased with the increase in PRFs. 18 Additionally, it was experimentally observed that the discharge mode of DBD in atmospheric air transformed from the filamentary mode to the diffuse mode, as the PRF decreased from 1000 Hz to 100 Hz. 11 Conversely, it was reported in the lower pressure that uniform pulsed DBD was only achieved under the higher PRFs. 23 According to this research, the memory effect was more significant under the higher PRFs because the pulsed interval time under the higher PRFs was shorter than that under the lower PRFs. In summary, the effect of PRFs on the nanosecond pulsed DBD homogeneity is complicated and non-monotonic. 19 For further application development of the repetitively nanosecond pulsed DBD, it is important to understand the mechanism of discharge mode transition with the PRF.
Although uniform DBD is important for most industrial applications, the DBD plasma at atmospheric pressure is homogeneous only by using the expensive inert gases (such as helium and neon) 24 or by using the specially designed electrode configuration. 25,26 However, DBD in molecular gases such as air is more likely the filamentary discharge because of additional power absorption channels in molecules (rotational, vibrational, excitation, dissociation, and ionization) compared with monatomic gases (excitation and ionization). 27 Three strict conditions for generating stable diffuse plasmas in atmospheric air were proposed, 28 and the generation of multiple overlapping electron avalanches was needed for the diffuse air plasma excited by nanosecond pulses. To summarize, realization of large-scale diffuse DBD plasmas in atmospheric air is challenging.
In this paper, the nanosecond pulsed DBD within 5 mm gap in atmospheric air is generated by using the plane-toplane configuration. An adjustable water resistance (WR) is connected in parallel with the DBD circuit. Under this circumstance, the characteristics of the DBD with and without the WR at 1200 Hz are compared. Afterwards, the discharge mode transition under different PRFs in the DBD with the WR is experimentally investigated. The electrical characteristics, discharge images, and optical emission spectra (OES) of the DBD volume discharge are obtained in order to discuss the underlying mechanism.

II. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
A schematic diagram of the apparatus is shown in Fig. 1. A three-stage magnetic pulse compression generator, which consisted of a low-voltage pulse generator and a pulse transformer, was used to produce repetitive nanosecond pulses. An adjustable WR using cycled regular tap water (specific conductivity, 200 lSÁcm À1 ) was connected in parallel with the DBD circuit, and this method was also reported previously. 11,22 The output voltage was changed by adjusting the WR, and the amplitude of the unipolar positive highvoltage in the experiments was fixed at about 30 kV. The rise time of the high-voltage was about 40 ns, and the full width at half maximum (FWHM) was about 200 ns. The PRFs are adjustable among 1200, 1000, 600, 300, and 100 Hz. The voltage waveforms show good reproducibility under different PRFs. The repetitive nanosecond pulses were applied to the upper electrodes (which will be referred to as the "anode"), and another electrode was connected to the ground (which will be referred to as the "cathode"). The gas gap was capable of changing from 1 mm to 10 mm with 0.5 mm intervals. The gas gap was always maintained constant at 5 mm in this experiment. The working gas was the still air under atmospheric pressure and room temperature.
As shown in Fig. 1, two kinds of electrode structures were employed in the experiment: case (a) and case (b). Case (a) was the same with the electrode used in the previous work, 29 and both the electrodes were covered by a mica plate with dimensions of 120 Â 60 Â 1 mm 3 . Two rectangular stainless steels, with dimensions of 100 Â 40 Â 5 mm 3 , were acted as the electrodes. The edges of the electrodes were smoothened to prevent the localized electric field. For case (b), the upper electrode was made of a quartz plate with transparent indium tin oxide (ITO) conductive coating to capture the front-view photographs. The size of the ITO electrode was 65 Â 60 mm 2 . Aluminum foil with the size of 45 Â 40 mm 2 was used as the grounded electrode. The dielectric in case (b) was the quartz glass plate with dimensions of 80 Â 80 Â 2 mm 3 .
Similar to the previous work, 29,30  P6015A (75 MHz, 4.0 ns) and a Tektronix TCP0150 current probe (20 MHz, 17.5 ns). The oscilloscope was powered by a lithium battery to reduce the electromagnetic interference from the nanosecond pulsed discharge. A SEN-TECH photomultiplier tube (PMT, P30A-05, 30 MHz, 12 ns) was used to measure the light emission from the discharge through an optical fiber. The input end of the optical fiber was located at the center of the emission with a distance of 48 cm so that the PMT field could cover almost all the plasma region. Discharge images from the front-view and side-view images were captured using a digital camera (Nikon D7000) with a macro lens (Tamron 90 mm, F1/2.8). The OES in the range of 300-420 nm were recorded using an Acton 2500i grating monochromator (grating groove is 2400 lines/mm, and glancing wavelength is 240 nm). The spectrograph was calibrated with the Hg lamp, and the entrance slit opening was maintained at 30 lm. Moreover, the optical fiber of the spectrograph was located at the center of the emitting light with a distance of 50 cm. No filter was employed, and thus, all the emitted light from the discharge was collected.

III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
A. Comparison between discharges with and without the WR at a PRF of 1200 Hz

Electrical characteristics
Typical oscillograms of the applied voltage pulses, together with the measured total current and PMT signals, for the DBD with and without the WR are presented in Fig. 2. The PRF is fixed at 1200 Hz. It is illustrated in Fig. 2(a) that the bipolar voltage pulse is changed into the unipolar positive voltage pulse, when the WR is connected. Meanwhile, the fall time of the unipolar positive voltage pulse is elevated. Quantitatively, the voltage change rate dU/dt in the falling front decreases from about 370 V/ns in the DBD without the WR 30 to about 130 V/ns in the DBD with the WR. The phenomenon is probably caused by the change in impedance matching in the DBD circuit. The breakdown voltage, which stands for the voltage necessary to start a discharge, is an important character in the discharge process. It was analyzed in the previous work that the abrupt little drop at the rising front of the voltage waveform was the breakdown symbol. 29 As displayed in Fig. 2(a), the breakdown occurs at about 35 ns. The breakdown voltage of the 5 mm air gap for the DBD without the WR is about 21 kV, while the value increases to nearly 25 kV for the DBD with the WR.
Comparison of the measured total current for the DBD with and without the WR is shown in Fig. 2(b). It is widely accepted that the effect of the displacement current should be taken into consideration with a fast pulse excitation. 31 The measured total DBD current can be divided into the conduction current, the displacement current, and the electromagnetic interference coming from the nanosecond pulsed signal. Although the conduction current can be extracted from the measured total current, according to a dynamic electrical model, this mechanism is only qualitatively transferable to the filamentary DBD. 15 Fortunately, the displacement current and the electromagnetic interference are relatively minor, compared with the larger conduction current, as shown in Fig. 2(b).
For the DBD without the WR, a positive current pulse corresponds to the primary discharge, and two negative current pulses exactly correspond to secondary and third discharges. 30 The primary discharge of the DBD without the WR takes place at the rising front of the voltage, and it occurs immediately after the breakdown, as shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). The peak value of the primary discharge is about 58 A. The FWHM of the primary discharge is about 50 ns, markedly smaller than that of the voltage pulse. Such a phenomenon is similar to the previous studies. 14,19 The conduction current in Fig. 2(b) appears as a distinct current pulse rather than a number of random current spikes which are typical for DBD excited by alternating-voltage in atmospheric air. 10 This is consistent with the characteristics of the nanosecond pulsed discharge. 11 Two negative discharges take place in the falling front of the voltage, following the primary discharge. By comparing the waveforms in Figs. 2(a

113514-3
Liu et al.
Phys. Plasmas 24, 113514 (2017)  fast falling front of the voltage. However, the third discharge at about 600 ns is induced only when the polarity of the applied voltage becomes negative. The occurrence of the two negative discharges is the direct consequence of the residual space charges and accumulated surface charges produced by the primary discharge. 29 The intensities of the two negative discharges are distinctly lower than that of the primary discharge, as shown in Fig. 2(b).This phenomenon is caused by the limited power stored during the primary discharge since the energy required by the two negative discharges is directly provided by the energy stored during the primary discharge. 15,32 However, the FWHM of the secondary discharge is obviously wider than that of the primary discharge. This result can be explained from three aspects. First, the secondary discharge occurs at a relatively low voltage because of the remaining conductivity of the discharge gap shortly after the primary discharge. 15 Second, the residual charge from the primary discharge facilitates the formation of the secondary discharge when the voltage polarity reverses, and thus, the intensity of the secondary discharge is increased. Third, the secondary discharge was reported much more uniform than the primary discharge, and it appeared a diffuse emission which occupied nearly the entire discharge space. 33,34 Noticeably, the intensity of the third discharge is obviously smaller than that of the secondary discharge. This is due to the relatively smaller number of residual charges in the ignition of the third discharge. It is indicated in Fig. 2(b) that a large number of residual charges are consumed by the secondary discharge. This is why the higher negative voltage is needed for the ignition of the third discharge, as shown in Fig. 2(a). Additionally, the phenomenon that three discharges occur in the DBD without the WR is also exhibited in the PMT signal, which is given in Fig. 2(c). Furthermore, the small current pulses before the breakdown, as given in the inset of Fig. 2(b), are mainly caused by the displacement current. This conclusion is also valid for the positive current pulse near 450 ns. The polarity of the applied voltage is changed near 450 ns as shown in Fig. 2(a), and this leads to a large value of dU/dt. The displacement current is directly proportional to the value of dU/dt, and thus, the displacement current near 450 ns is large.
For the DBD with the WR, only one current pulse is presented as shown in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c). Additionally, this current pulse corresponds to the primary discharge in the DBD without the WR. In other words, only the primary discharge occurs in the DBD with the WR. The phenomenon was in accordance with the previous research that the rapid fall time was important for the appearance of the reverse discharge. 16 Meanwhile, the result that only one current pulse presented in the unipolar positive nanosecond pulsed DBD was also reported before. 35 Noticeably, the peak value of the primary discharge is increased to about 62 A in the DBD with the WR.

Discharge images
With regard to the difference between uniform and filamentary modes, discharge images are used to distinguish whether the discharge is uniform. Side-view images with different exposure times for the DBD with and without the WR are given in Fig. 3. The images with the exposure time of 1/ 1250 s in Fig. 3(a) correspond to the single pulsed discharge images. The image of Fig. 3(a1) is for the DBD without the WR. This image is the superposition of the three discharges under the same one voltage pulse although the camera is not synchronized with the voltage pulse. 30 It is indicated in Fig. 3(a1) that the discharge without the WR is filamentary. However, as shown in Fig. 3(a2), the discharge mode of the DBD with the WR changes into several filaments superimposed on diffuse emission over the entire space. In other words, the discharge with the WR is more uniform. Moreover, the aforementioned phenomena are obviously displayed in the images with a longer exposure time of 1/125 s, as given in Fig. 3(b). It is worth noting that the brightness of the photographs with the WR is decreased because part of the input power is dissipated in the WR besides the power consumed by the plasma.
The front-view images of the discharge with and without the WR are compared in Fig. 4. These images are photographed through the transparent electrode as shown in Fig. 1(b), and the exposure time is 1/125 s. The images in Fig. 4 were processed under the same conditions in order to enhance the contrast. As shown in Fig. 4(a), the DBD without the WR is clearly the filamentary discharge. It shows a multitude of chaotically distributed spots over the electrode surface, and hence, the image in Fig. 4(a) is in agreement with that in Fig. 3(b1). The bright spots in Fig. 4(a) correspond to the footprints of individual microdischarges, and they have diameters in the order of 100 lm. 2 The front-view image for the DBD with the WR is given in Fig. 4(b). Comparing with images in Fig. 4(a), the uniform component is increased, and the microdischarges with lower luminosity are presented. This form of discharge had a resemblance to FIG. 3. Comparisons of the side-view images with different exposure times for the DBD with and without the WR. (a1) and (a2) show the single pulsed discharge images for the DBD without and with the WR, respectively. (b1) and (b2) show 10 pulse accumulative images for the DBD without and with the WR, respectively.

113514-4
Liu et al.
Phys. Plasmas 24, 113514 (2017)  the stable partially homogeneous discharge observed on the pre-charged dielectric surface, which was in the form of diffuse streamer clusters. 36 Additionally, the result in Fig. 4(b) is in agreement with the side-view images shown in Fig. 3(b2). In summary, it is demonstrated in Figs. 3 and4 that the discharge with the WR is more homogeneous. It was mentioned in the previous work that the primary discharge corresponded to the randomly distributed filaments in the gap. 30 The discharge mode of the DBD with the WR is not the same as expected, as shown in Figs. 3 and4, although only the primary discharge takes place in the same voltage pulse. This phenomenon provides additional evidence that the discharge with the WR is more uniform than that without the WR.

Residual charge accumulation in the DBD with the WR
For the conventional nanosecond pulsed DBD, it is widely accepted that the residual charge remaining from the primary discharge is consumed in the reverse discharges. 11,14,15 As shown in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c), no reverse discharges occur in the discharge with the WR. Therefore, the residual charge remaining from the primary discharge is not consumed for the DBD with the WR. However, the residual charge decays during the pulsed interval time. The pulsed interval time is exactly the time between two consecutive discharges for the DBD with the WR. The lifetime and diffusion of the residual charge, during the pulsed interval time, are evaluated.
a. Lifetime of residual charge. For the nanosecond pulsed DBD, the generated ions with higher mass are nearly immobile on the time scale of hundreds of nanoseconds, and the discharge is almost entirely driven by electrons. 12,13,37 Therefore, most ions are essentially frozen in the gap space when the external nanosecond high-voltage pulse is applied. The generated electrons travel on the background ions, and eventually, they are deposited on the dielectric surface covering the anode. That is to say, the residual charge in the experiment refers to the electrons accumulated on the dielectric surface and the ions remaining in the discharge space. The lifetime of the residual charge, after termination of the preceding pulsed discharge, is considered as follows:
First, the lifetime of the electrons accumulated on the dielectric surface is considered. On the one hand, it was measured that the decay time of the surface electrons was on the time-scale of sub-second to second for the DBD driven by alternating-voltage. 7,38 On the other hand, the plasma in the experiment is ignited by the repetitive nanosecond pulses. The comparison between the DBD driven by alternatingvoltage and nanosecond pulses has been extensively investigated. 10,39 The conduction current of the DBD excited by nanosecond pulses is in the order of tens of amperes or even as high as hundreds of amperes, 11 which is much higher than that excited by alternating-voltage (basically in the order of microampere or milliampere). Moreover, the generated charges contributing to the conduction current were found to agree well with the amount of accumulated surface charges. 40 Therefore, the density of accumulated electrons in the DBD driven by nanosecond pulses is much higher than the DBD driven by alternating-voltage. By combining the above two aspects, the lifetime of the surface electrons is significantly longer than the pulsed interval time (basically 0.83 ms). Therefore, the density of the surface electrons is very high when the next pulsed discharge is ignited.
Additionally, the breakdown voltage of the DBD with the WR is increased as clearly shown in Fig. 2(a). The nanosecond pulsed DBD is typically an over-voltage breakdown discharge due to the fast rise time. The overvoltage breakdown refers to the voltage at breakdown exceeding the static breakdown value. This over-voltage breakdown will result in a higher initial electric field or reduced electric field E/N (where E is the electric field across the gap, and N is the number density of neutral particles), 31 which causes the much higher discharge current than that excited by alternatingvoltage. 10,39 However, when the WR is connected, the peak value of the primary discharge is only slightly increased as shown in Fig. 2(b) although the breakdown voltage increases from 21 kV to 25 kV. In other words, the effective applied voltage at the breakdown in the DBD with and without the WR is basically unchanged. From the above analyses, the accumulated surface electrons are not consumed, and the lifetime is longer than the pulsed interval time. Meanwhile, the discharge is driven by the unipolar positive voltage. It is concluded that the increased breakdown voltage in the DBD with the WR, as shown in Fig. 2(a), is caused by the electronshielding effect on the electric field. Second, the lifetime of the residual ions in the discharge space is evaluated. During the pulsed interval time, the decay of the residual ions in the discharge space is performed by three different processes.
One channel of ion decay is identified as recombination of positive and negative ions, and this is the mechanism of ion-ion recombination in electronegative gas. 41 For the DBD in air (electronegative gas consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, and water vapor), positive and negative ions ðO À ; O À 2 ; O À 3 Þ are generally taken into consideration. 1,21 The positive ions are generated by collision ionization of the energetic electrons and neutral gas molecules. The negative ions are formed through attachment of electrons to neutral particles. The typical recombination coefficient of ion-ion was 10 À6 cm 3 Ás À1 for the DBD driven by alternating-voltage in atmospheric air. 21,41 It is reckoned that the density of positive ions is probably higher than that of the negative ions in the experiment. One reason for this conclusion is that the applied nanosecond pulse is capable of accelerating electrons to high energies efficient for ionization, [10][11][12] as mentioned in the introduction part. However, the electron attachment process, which leads to the generation of the negative ions, preferentially occurs at the low electric field or in the electrons with low-energy. 42 Another reason is that the density of negative ions is hardly increased in the pulsed interval time although the negative ions can be additionally formed by attachment during this time. The electrons are rapidly accumulated on the dielectric surface on the time scale of hundreds of nanoseconds. 12,37 The surface electrons decay gradually due to the electron attachment, as stated in the previous work. 30 Accordingly, the negative ions are mainly formed in the vicinity of the anode during the pulsed interval time. The surface electrons are adsorbed by the dielectric surface with the potential-well depth less than or around 1 eV. 7 The electron affinity energies of O atoms, O 2 molecule, and O 3 ozone are 1.4 eV, 0.46 eV, and 2.1 eV, respectively. Therefore, the density of the negative ions is hardly increased during the pulsed interval time. In summary, the corresponding recombination coefficient of positive and negative ions is quite small, and thus, this decay channel of the residual ions is neglected.
Another channel of ion decay is the interaction between residual ions with dielectric covering on the electrode. It is noteworthy that the ions hardly gain high energy from the applied electric field on the time scale of hundreds of nanoseconds. 12,37 Meanwhile, no electric field is applied to the discharge space during the pulsed interval time. Therefore, the interaction between ions and the dielectric surface is neglected.
The third channel of ion decay is electron-positive ion recombination. This recombination is probably very strong for the nanosecond pulsed DBD, which is reflected in the occurrence of the reverse discharges in the DBD without the WR as shown in Fig. 2(b). It is well known that the DBD in atmospheric air typically consists of many separate microdischarges. Residual ions in the discharge space and accumulated electrons on the dielectric surface exist after these separate microdischarges are terminated. 1,43 Moreover, the density distribution of the surface electrons had a shape close to Gaussian. 38 As analyzed above, the residual charge is not consumed in the DBD with the WR. Therefore, the accumulated electrons on the dielectric surface are probably neutralized with the residual ions in the space. Accordingly, the distribution of residual charge is changed owing to charge neutralization. On the one hand, the radial distribution of surface electrons at the inception of the following pulsed breakdown is not Gaussian. In other words, it is with the minimum valley at the center instead of the maximum. 21 On the other hand, the positive ions located near the anode are neutralized with the surface electrons, and thus, a large number of positive ions are accumulated in the region closer to the cathode. This was consistent with the previous report on the nanosecond pulsed DBD in atmospheric air. 12 It was reported in this work that the electric field near the cathode was enhanced in the pre-breakdown phase owing to the residual positive ions survived from the preceding pulsed discharge. Meanwhile, it was suggested that the residual ions should be considered in the nanosecond pulsed breakdown with PRF of several hundred Hz, when the WR was connected. 22,44 In conclusion, it is reasonable to speculate that a large number of ions would remain in the electrode gap when the following pulsed discharge is ignited although the density of the residual ions was not measured in the experiment. 21 Based on the above analyses, the density of the residual charge is high in the DBD with the WR, when the following discharge is ignited. Therefore, the difference between the DBD with and without the WR can be deduced. The difference is that the residual charge at the inception of the following pulsed discharge is increased for the DBD with the WR. The effect of this increased residual charge on the discharge behavior will be discussed in the following part.
b. Diffusion of residual charge. For the filamentary discharge in atmospheric air, the places occupied by the microdischarge are the regions of higher ion density. 6,19,43 Then, these regions are differentiated from the rest of the discharge volume. Here, the diffusion of ions in the microdischarge column during the pulsed interval time is considered.
The diffusion coefficient of the negative and positive ions was taken as 0.11 cm 2 Ás À1 and 0.046 cm 2 Ás À1 , respectively. 5 A numerical study revealed that the residual charge in the volume was responsible for the re-appeared position of the microdischarge. 21 A detailed study on the chaotic behavior of the microdischarges indicated that individual microdischarge did not remain constant at a fixed location. 45 The radial displacement of a microdischarge was about 0.25 lm during one half-period of an alternating-voltage at 100 kHz 45 although the diffusion coefficient was small. Here, the PRF is 1200 Hz, and the pulsed interval time is about 0.83 ms. From this perspective, it is speculated that the diffusion of the ions in the plasma column during the pulsed interval time is non-negligible.

Discussion of improved uniformity in the DBD with the WR
The phenomenon of improved uniformity in the DBD with the WR is discussed as follows based on the residual charge accumulation. As stated before, the accumulated surface electron is increased at the inception of the following pulsed discharge in the DBD with the WR. Numerous investigations had proved that the seed electrons necessary for uniform discharge could be produced by desorption of the surface electrons. [7][8][9] However, this theory is not applicable to the discharge driven by unipolar positive voltage pulse as the surface electrons are still adsorbed in the potential-well.
The phenomenon that the discharge with the WR is more uniform is probably attributed to the following: First, a "virtual anode" exists in the discharge gap, which leads to the uniform breakdown near the cathode. As analyzed above, the surface electrons have a shielding effect on the electric field. Moreover, the positive ions are accumulated and diffused near the cathode, after neutralized with the surface electrons. Therefore, it is reckoned that the effective anode moves to the position closer to the cathode. In other words, a "virtual anode" is located in the region closer to the cathode, when the following pulsed discharge is ignited. The concept of the "virtual anode" was also mentioned in the experimental investigation on the propagation of positive streamers. 46 Consequently, the breakdown within the 5 mm air gap is equivalent to occur within the gap smaller than 5 mm. It is widely accepted that the discharge in the small air gap itself is more uniform than that in the large air gap. 11,30 Therefore, the discharge probably begins with the uniform breakdown occurring near the cathode. As a result, the discharge with the WR is more uniform than that without the WR.
Second, additional avalanche-initiating electrons of uniform discharge required are generated near the cathode in the DBD with the WR. According to the experimental investigation on the nanosecond pulsed DBD in atmospheric air, 12 an electric field enhancement near the cathode exists in the pre-breakdown phase. The enhanced electric field is due to charge accumulation. This charge accumulation near the cathode comes from two ways. 12 On the one hand, it is caused by the ions remaining from the preceding pulsed discharge. On the other hand, it is caused by ionization of the secondary electrons in the enhanced electric field, and these secondary electrons are generated by bombardment of the ions initially located close to the cathode. It is worth noting that the experimental conditions in this study are similar to those in the literature. 12 The applied electric field is in the same order of 10 6 V/m, and the glass is also used as the dielectric as shown in Fig. 1(b). That is to say, the positive ion energy and the secondary electron emission coefficient in the experiment, which depend on the applied electric field and the dielectric, respectively, are basically the same as those in the previous literature. 12 From the aforementioned description, the enhanced electric field is higher during the pre-breakdown phase in the DBD with the WR since more ions are accumulated near the cathode. Consequently, the bombardment of the ions initially located close to the cathode is strengthened, and accordingly, more secondary electrons are generated. Moreover, these secondary electrons probably act as avalanche-initiating electrons in the breakdown phase, which improved the discharge uniformity. It was experimentally proved that the secondary electron emission from the dielectric surface provided sufficient avalanche-initiating electrons and enhanced the discharge intensity in atmospheric air. 47 This secondary reason for the increased uniformity in the DBD with the WR is macroscopically presented in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c). The peak value of the current is increased in the DBD with the WR although the electric field is shielded by the surface electrons. In conclusion, the existence of the "virtual anode" and the generation of additional avalanche-initiating electrons are considered as the main reasons for improved uniformity in the DBD with the WR, as shown in Figs. 3 and4.

B. Characteristics of the discharge with the WR under different PRFs


Discharge mode transition under different PRFs
The side-view images with different exposure times for the DBD with the WR under different PRFs are given in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), respectively. Meanwhile, the exposure time corresponding to different PRFs is listed in Table I. It is presented that the discharge mode of the DBD with the WR is the intermediate between the traditional diffuse and filamentary modes under all the values of PRFs. This is analyzed already in Sec. III A. In addition, it is displayed in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b) that more filaments with declined brightness are produced under the lower PRFs (600, 300, and 100 Hz). In other words, the discharge uniformity is increased with the decreasing PRFs. This phenomenon is consistent with the conclusion that the streamer mechanism is involved in the macroscopically diffuse discharge in atmospheric air. 36 Especially, the single pulsed image at 100 Hz is not uniform with the randomly distributed filaments as shown in Fig. 5(a). However, its time averaged distribution is more uniform as shown in Fig. 5(b), which is almost the same as seen by the naked eyes. Considered from this angle, this kind of discharge can be used in many applications if the process proceeds with the time scale larger than that determined by the PRF.
The front-view photographs at PRF of 1200 and 100 Hz are presented in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b), with the exposure times of 1/125 s and 1/10 s, respectively. It is noteworthy that the phenomenon in Fig. 6 is identical to that in Fig. 5(b), i.e., several random filaments change into more filaments with declined brightness as the PRF decreases from 1200 Hz to 100 Hz. The phenomenon that the discharge under the lower PRFs is more uniform than that under the higher PRFs (1200 and 1000 Hz) has also been reported before. 11 The macroscopically uniform DBD in atmospheric air was qualitatively explained by the overlapping of the individual streamers. 36 It means that the number of the discharge channels is increased with the decreasing PRFs. These radially expanding channels are more likely to temporally overlap with each other, resulting in the more uniform discharge. The discharge appearance at 100 Hz was generally called the quasi-uniform mode. However, the discharge at 1200 Hz presented more filaments, and it could be called the filamentary mode. From this perspective, the discharge mode transits from the filamentary mode to the quasi-uniform mode with the PRF decreasing from 1200 Hz to 100 Hz.

Memory effect in the repetitively pulsed discharge
It is a widespread opinion that the breakdown mechanism in the repetitively pulsed excitation must be associated with the memory effect. 11,19,23 The memory effect refers to high levels of vibrationally excited molecules and electronically excited metastable states along with residual charge on the dielectric surface and in the discharge space. The possible reasons for the aforementioned discharge mode transition in Figs. 5 and6 are discussed as follows based on the memory effect.
a. Plasma gas temperature. The gas temperature is an important factor affecting the uniformity of the repetitive nanosecond pulsed DBD. It has been experimentally demonstrated in the DBD that significant gas heating took place approximately several nanoseconds after the application of nanosecond pulsed voltage. 48 A well-known mechanism for fast gas heating at moderated E/N ($10 2 Td; the value of E/N is nearly 240 Td in the experiment for N ¼ 2.5 Â 10 19 cm À3 ) in the nanosecond pulsed air plasma is relaxation of the energy stored in ionization and in electronic degrees of freedom of molecules. 48,49 Recently, it was found that the temperature was locally increased in the microdischarge. 50 The gas within the gap is probably continuously heated, when repetitive pulses are applied across the air gap. Therefore, it TABLE I. Exposure time of the images in Figs. 5(a  probably displays the accumulative heating effect in the repetitive discharges. Once the heat is accumulated in the gap, neutral particles go away from the discharge regions. This leads to lower gas density and higher E/N in the microdischarge region than that in the surrounding environment. As a consequence, breakdown voltage is locally reduced (about 20 V/ K), 50 and rapid constriction of the discharge channel is presented. The aforementioned accumulative heating effect in the repetitive nanosecond pulsed DBD is quantitatively reflected in the gas temperature.
The OES from the discharge region are collected in order to evaluate the gas temperature of the discharge under different PRFs. To compare the spectral intensity of the discharge under different PRFs, the integration time of the spectrometer under different PRFs is adjusted and given in Table I. It means that all the emission intensity is temporally and spatially averaged over 1200 discharge pulses.
By comparing the simulated spectrum with the measured nitrogen spectrum of the second positive system (SPS), it is possible to obtain the average rotational and vibrational temperature of nitrogen when the best fit is achieved. 51 In this experiment, the SPECAIR software, 51 a program specifically designed for air discharge simulation, is employed. Figure 7 gives the measured spectrum together with the simulated OES of N 2 SPS from 372 nm to 382 nm for 380.5 nm ðC 3 P u ! B 3 P g ; 0-2Þ. The spectra in Fig. 7 are normalized with respect to the peak intensity of 380.5 nm. It clearly shows that the simulated spectrum fits well with the measured one. Thus, the average rotational temperature T rot of nitrogen is 390 K, and the average vibrational temperature T vib is 3688 K. Therefore, the average vibrational temperature is much higher than the average rotational temperature. The result implies that the plasma is under extremely nonequilibrium conditions, and it is in agreement with the nature of the nanosecond pulsed discharge. 14 Moreover, because of the low energies (10 À3 eV) and short transition times (less than 1 ns) needed for rotational excitation, the dynamic equilibrium between rotational motion and translation motion of molecules is easily achieved by frequent collisions between the heavy particles during their radiative lifetime at atmospheric pressure. 14,29 Therefore, it is assumed that the actual gas temperature is approximately equal to the rotational temperature of N 2 with errors reported as low as 2.4%. 52 The average rotational temperature, i.e., gas temperature, under different PRFs is given in Fig. 8. Each temperature presented in Fig. 8 is fitted for at least five times, and error bars are given by calculating the standard deviation of the data. It is worth noting from Fig. 8 that the gas temperature is basically unchanged with the PRF decreasing from 1200 Hz to 100 Hz. Therefore, the heat generated in the preceding pulsed discharge almost has no effect on the next one although the integration time of the spectrometer at 100 Hz is 12 s as shown in Table I. A previous experimental study reported that the gas temperature remained nearly constant even though the operation time lasted several minutes. 39 It is generally accepted that this unchanged gas temperature is caused by the small duty cycle of the repetitive nanosecond pulses. 14,39 The repetitive nanosecond pulsed plasma has enough time to release the generated heat into the surrounding air owing to the short discharge duration time (about 50 ns) and long cooling down time (a few milliseconds). Therefore, the possibility of gas temperature in the aforementioned discharge mode transition is rejected.
b. Nitrogen metastable states. It was proved previously that the electronically excited metastable states influenced the gas breakdown and induced the discharge mode transition. 53 For instance, additional seed electrons were provided by the metastable molecule N 2 ðA 3 R þ u Þ via Penning ionization in N 2 at atmospheric pressure. However, the metastable molecules have a lifetime of less than 1 ls considering effective quenching of the N 2 metastable states by oxygen molecules in atmospheric air. 54 Moreover, although the air temperature higher than 1000 K minimizes the quenching effect, 55 the gas temperature of the nanosecond pulsed DBD is basically 400 K, as shown in Fig. 8. 14,29 Therefore, the impact of the N 2 metastable molecule is hardly reflected in the following pulsed breakdown. The possible role of electronically excited metastable states in the aforementioned discharge mode transition is excluded.

113514-9
Liu et al.
Phys. Plasmas 24, 113514 (2017)  excited metastable states in the discharge mode transition is excluded. Therefore, it is speculated that residual charge survived from the preceding pulsed discharge is responsible for the discharge mode transition. This conclusion was also reported previously in the investigation about the influence of PRF on the discharge homogeneity. 11,19 In the following content, the distribution gradient of residual charge under different PRFs is quantitatively evaluated by estimating the spatially averaged electron density (n e ) and peak current value.
Electron density, which describes the characteristics of the discharge plasma, is evaluated under different PRFs. It is mentioned in a simplified collision-radiation model for N 2 (C) that the intensity ratio of two lines from the N 2 SPS is a rough indicator of n e . 56 Here, the intensity ratios of 371.1 nm and 380.5 nm are calculated by the line-ratio technique of OES in order to obtain the change in n e under different PRFs. The two lines come from the following excitation processes out of the ground-state N 2 (X):
The relative intensity ratio of the lines at 371.1 nm and 380.5 nm, which describes n e , under different PRFs is displayed in Fig. 9. It is shown that n e has a minor dependence on the applied PRFs.
The peak value of the conduction current is also an important quantity for characterizing the discharge. The peak current value under different PRFs is also displayed in Fig. 9. It is shown that the peak current value is increased with the PRF decreasing from the 1200 Hz to 100 Hz. This tendency is consistent with the previous research on the repetitive nanosecond pulsed DBD in atmospheric air. 57 The current density J is expressed as 11,14 J ¼ el e n e E g ;
where e is the electron charge, l e is the electron mobility in atmospheric air, and n e is the spatially averaged electron density. Here, the electric field strength E g is the averaged electric field across the gas gap, and it is defined as the applied voltage divided by the gap distance. It should be pointed out that this is only the estimation, and the actual electric field deviates from the nominal electric field because of the generated space charges. 12,58 Under the experimental condition, the only variable left in the equation of J is n e . It is shown in Fig. 9 that n e is nearly unchanged with the decreasing PRFs. Therefore, the current density J is also unchanged. Provided that the current density J is the conduction current across the air gap divided by the effective discharge area, as shown in Fig. 9, the peak current value under the lower PRFs is larger than that under the higher PRFs. Therefore, the effective discharge area under the lower PRFs is larger than that under the higher PRFs. For the homogenous discharge, the effective discharge area is basically equal to the electrode area. However, the effective discharge area is smaller than the electrode area for the filamentary discharge. Consequently, the discharge under the lower PRFs is more homogenous than that under the higher PRFs, which is consistent with the phenomena in Figs. 5 and6.
Meanwhile, it is also concluded that the charge density distribution gradient under the higher PRFs is larger than that under the lower PRFs. It was reported that the density of both the electrons and ions in the position occupied by the filaments is higher than that of the adjacent domains. 6,19,43 As seen from the discharge images in Figs. 5 and6, the discharge channels under the higher PRFs are contracted, and thus, the charge density distribution gradient under the higher PRF is larger. However, more discharge channels with declined intensity are presented under the lower PRFs. Consequently, the charge density distribution gradient is smaller than that under the higher PRFs.
As mentioned in Sec. III A, the accumulated surface electrons are neutralized in the DBD with the WR; however, the residual ions are left in the discharge space. Therefore, it is further speculated that the residual ions in the discharge space are responsible for the discharge mode transition shown in Figs. 5 and6. Meanwhile, the density distribution gradient of the positive and negative ions under the higher PRFs is larger than that under the lower PRFs.
Under the higher PRF condition, the pulsed interval time is short (about 1 ms). Moreover, the effective discharge area is smaller, and the intensity of the single microdischarge is strong. The non-uniformly distributed residual ions are not fully diffused in the insufficient time. Consequently, the charge density gradient within the discharge space is pretty large. Therefore, the microdischarges just occur along conductive channels of the preceding discharge, and then, several macroscopic filaments are observed as shown in Figs. 5 and6. However, for the discharge under the lower PRF condition, more discharge channels with declined intensity are distributed over the increased effective discharge area. Meanwhile, a longer interval time exists between two consecutive pulses. For example, the interval time is increased FIG. 9. Comparison of the spectra relative intensity ratio (337.1 nm and 380.5 nm) and peak current value under different PRFs.

113514-10
Liu et al.
Phys. Plasmas 24, 113514 (2017)  by a factor of 12 as the PRF changes from 1200 Hz to 100 Hz. Consequently, the more uniformly distributed residual ions have longer diffusion time, and the charge density gradient within the discharge space is smoothed out. Therefore, the discharge under the lower PRF is more homogeneous when compared with that under the higher PRFs, as presented in Figs. 5 and6.
It was reported that residual ions strongly affected the inception of discharge 12,44,47,58 as the positive and negative ions in the memory effect would provide avalancheinitiating electrons of uniform discharge required. Important processes of providing effective initial electrons would be cathode bombardment of positive ions 12,47 and collisional detachment of negative ions. 44,58 It is conjectured that the effect of positive ions is more pronounced despite the fact that the energy needed for detachment is much lower than that for ionization (for example, the detachment and ionization energy of O À 2 are approximately 0.5 eV and 12.2 eV, respectively). The conjecture is based on that the density of positive ions is probably higher than that of the negative ions for the nanosecond pulsed DBD, as analyzed in Sec. III A.

IV. CONCLUSIONS
In this work, the influence of residual charge on the repetitively nanosecond pulsed DBD in atmospheric air is evaluated by connecting the WR in parallel with the parallelplate DBD circuit. Comparison between the DBD with and without the WR is studied by electrical measurements, discharge images, and OES. For the DBD without the WR, the primary discharge occurs in the rising front of the applied voltage, and two reverse discharges occur in the falling front. For the DBD with the WR, the bipolar voltage pulse changes into the unipolar positive voltage pulse, and no reverse discharge following the primary discharge exhibits because of the elevated fall time. Therefore, the residual charge is not consumed by the reverse discharges for the DBD with the WR. By analyzing the decay channels of the residual charge, it is concluded that the density of residual charge in the subsequent pulsed discharge is high for the DBD with the WR. Moreover, the difference between the DBD with and without the WR is that the residual charge is increased for the DBD with the WR.
Additionally, the DBD with the WR displays the more uniform appearance than that without the WR. It is believed that two reasons are responsible for this phenomenon. One reason is that a "virtual anode" located closer to the cathode exists within the discharge space. Therefore, the discharge begins with the uniform breakdown near the cathode. Another reason is that the enhanced electric field is higher during the pre-breakdown phase. Consequently, additional avalanche-initiating electrons are provided in the breakdown phase.
The discharge mode transits from the filamentary mode to the quasi-uniform mode in the DBD with the WR, as the PRF decreases from 1200 Hz to 100 Hz. The role of gas temperature and electronically excited metastable states in the discharge mode transition is excluded based on the memory effect. Consequently, the inhomogeneously distributed residual charge, especially the residual ions, is probably responsible for the discharge mode transition. The analysis indicated that the more homogeneously distributed residual ions under lower PRFs have the relatively longer diffusion time, and thus, the discharge is more uniform. Moreover, it is speculated that the positive ions play a more prominent role than the negative ions.

