Abstract
The influence of the steepness of the applied high voltage (HV) waveform on the characteristics of pulsed dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) is investigated using a single-filament arrangement with 1 mm gap in 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure. The slope steepness was varied between 75 V ns -1 and 200 V ns -1 . The discharge development was recorded with a combined iCCD and streak camera system accompanied by electrical measurements. The analysis was supported by time-dependent, spatially one-dimensional fluid model calculations. A steeper HV slope leads to a higher transferred charge and electrical energy per cycle. The DBD emission structure in the gap features a shorter 'dark space' in front of the cathode for steeper HV pulses. The starting velocity of the positive streamer-like propagation at the rising slope of the HV pulses increases with increasing slope steepness, but without influencing the maximal velocity in front of the cathode. At the falling slope, however, smaller propagation velocities for steeper pulses were measured. The modelling results and the measurements of the emission during the pre-phase suggest that the elevated pre-ionisation and higher electrical energy for steeper HV slopes is responsible for most of the observed effects.

Introduction
Non-thermal atmospheric pressure discharges in air-like gas mixtures are often used for the generation of reactive nitrogen and oxygen species, which are relevant for a variety of applications, such as pollution control and surface modification [1][2][3][4]. The waveform of the supply voltage is a crucial parameter for the discharge properties [5,6]. Pulsed operation has been found to be an efficient way to generate a non-thermal plasma, e.g. in pulsed corona discharges [7,8]. Another prominent example of the generation of non-thermal plasmas are di electric barrier discharges (DBDs) [9,10]. Although DBDs are commonly sine-driven, the pulsed operation enables a higher yield of reactive species, such as ozone and atomic nitrogen [11][12][13][14][15][16][17]. In sinusoidal operation, the high voltage (HV) slope steepness can only be changed by the repetition frequency f rep and the HV amplitude V p . In contrast, pulsed operation allows the study of variable HV slope steepnesses without changing f rep or V p . Furthermore, variation of the pulse width enables a distinct control of the DBD characteristics, as reported in previous works [18][19][20][21].
One of the most important parameters of all pulsed-driven discharges is the steepness of the HV slope, and numerous recent studies have investigated the impact of the voltage rise time on the properties of discharges without a dielectric barrier [22][23][24][25]. However, the behaviour of DBDs driven by steep HV slopes differs from that of discharges with uncovered metal electrodes, because the displacement current I dis is proportional to the change of the applied voltage ( V t I d d dis / ∼ ). Moreover, the voltage rise/fall time determines the duration of the charge carrier generation in the so-called pre-phase, which is important for the breakdown inception in DBD arrangements [26].
So far, the impact of varying V t d d / on the breakdown of pulsed DBDs has not been investigated in detail. The present work therefore examines the influence of the HV slope steepness on the spatio-temporal DBD development in a single filament arrangement focussing on the tracking of the subnanosecond streamer-like propagation. The impact of the voltage pulse steepness on crucial discharge features, such as the breakdown voltage, transferred charge and streamer propagation velocity was determined by means of fast optical and electrical diagnostics and time-dependent spatially onedimensional fluid modelling.

Experimental set-up and brief model description
The experimental set-up with the apparatus for diagnostics is schematically represented in figure 1. The single-filament arrangement featured a double-sided dielectric barrier configuration with half-spherical, alumina-covered electrodes (permit tivity r ε ≈ 9) with a 1 mm gap housed in a Plexiglas cell. The feeding gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 was flushed through the cell from top to bottom. The DBD was driven by positive unipolar square wave pulses with V 10 p = kV and f
) using a pulse generator (DEI PVX-4110). The pulse width was fixed at 10 µs, i.e. there were 10 µs between the rising and subsequent falling slope, and 90 µs between the falling and subsequent rising slope. Three different HV slope steepnesses with a rise/ fall time t 10%-90% of 45 ns, 80 ns, and 200 ns, respectively, were realised by means of different resistors on the HV side (no resistor for 45 ns, 7.0 kΩ for 80 ns, and 15.8 kΩ for 200 ns). The applied voltages were measured directly at the HV side, i.e. between the resistor and the HV connection to the electrode.
The optical diagnostics consisted of a fast iCCD camera (Andor iStar 334T, time and space resolution t ∆ ⩾ 2 ns, x ∆ ≈ 2 µm) for the 2D imaging of the DBD structure and a streak camera system (Hamamatsu C5680, t ∆ ⩾ 50 ps, x ∆ ≈ 2 µm) for the recording of the spatio-temporal DBD development. The entrance slit of the streak camera was 100 µm. Due to the magnification factor of four provided by the far-field microscope, the streak camera images show the spatio-temporal development over 25 µm along the discharge channel. The correct positioning of the discharge channel axis along the streak camera slit was done by using the axial profiles determined from the iCCD images. Both cameras are sensitive in the UV and the visible spectral range, and the images presented in this paper were either spectrally integrated or spectrally resolved by metal interference filters for the second positive system of N 2 (SPS, 0-0 transition: Melles-Griot, CWL 337.1 nm, 3 nm bandwidth).
Electrical measurements were performed by fast current (Tektronix CT-1, rise time (10-90%) 0.35 ns) and voltage probes (Tektronix P6015A, rise time (10-90%) 4.67 ns) and recorded with a digital phosphor oscilloscope (Tektronix DPO 7254C, 2.5 GHz, 40 GS/s).
The same time-dependent, spatially one-dimensional fluid model as in Höft et al [21] was applied here in order to support the interpretation of the experimental results. Taking the measured applied voltage pulses at the HV electrode as input, the following equations were self-consistently solved, as described in detail in Becker et al [27]:
t q at the dielectric surfaces.
From the Poisson equation ( 1) the electric potential φ and the axial electric field E z / φ = -∂ ∂ was obtained. Here, 0 ε denotes the vacuum permittivity. The particle densities n j of species j with charge q j and the energy density of electrons w e were determined by solving the balance equations ( 2) and (3), respectively. Here, S j and P e represent the respective particle and energy gain/loss in collision processes. The fluxes of heavy particles ( j e ≠ ) were determined in the common driftdiffusion approximation as described in [27]. For the particle ( e Γ ) and energy (Q e ) flux of the electrons, the improved driftdiffusion approximation DDAn [28]  dielectric surfaces with normal ν. The considered reaction kinetics scheme was based on Kossyi et al [29] and included about 50 heavy particle species and 520 reactions for the N 2 -O 2 gas mixture. The emission of electrons with a secondary electron emission coefficient of 0.02 and the partial reflection of particles according to [30] were used as boundary conditions at the dielectrics. Predefined Gaussian shaped charge carrier densities n z t n z c , 0 exp 0 .5 mm 2
-were used as initial condition for the numerical modelling of single discharge pulses. The width c 0.2 mm = of the profile was chosen on the basis of self-consistent model calculations for several voltage pulses that have been performed in Höft et al [21]. The impact of the initial density (pre-ionisation) n 0 is discussed in section 4. For neutral species, a uniform profile not affecting the breakdown process was assumed as initial condition.

Results
The HV pulses with the different slope steepnesses and corre sponding temporal voltage changes ( V t d d / ) are shown in figure 2 ns). The different pulse shapes were distinguished by their rise/ fall time of 10% to 90% (t 10%-90% ). Note that the shape of the waveforms is identical for the falling slope (dropping from 10 kV to zero 2 , see figure 2(b)). Possible consequences of the energy loss induced by the external resistor which was used to smooth the voltage slope are discussed in the next section.
Figure 2 also presents the total electrical discharge current I tot ((c), (d)) and the electrical DBD current I I I

DBD t ot dis
= -((e), (f)) for the discharges occurring at the rising and falling slopes. At the rising slope, the maxima and widths of the electrical DBD current shapes increase with increasing HV slope steepness, whereas at the falling slope only the widths increase, while the I DBD maxima stay more or less the same for all HV slope steepnesses. It was found that the DBD current maximum for t 80 10%-90% = ns slightly exceeds those for 45 ns and 200 ns, see table 1 below.
The synchronised voltage and current measurements were used to create a Q-V plot (Lissajous figure), with which the capacitances of the DBD arrangement (capacitance of the complete DBD arrangement C 0.34 tot = pF, capacitance of the dielectric barriers C 0.66 b = pF), and the consumed electrical energy per period E el [31][32][33] were calculated. With these capacitances, the transferred charge over the gap was calculated for an individual discharge event according to [33]: 2 Please note that for a unipolar applied voltage the voltage in the gap at the falling slope is higher for lower values of the applied voltage due to the compensation of the electric field strength in the gap by surface charges after the discharge at the rising slope, i.e. a lower applied voltage means a higher voltage in the gap.
Here, t 1 and t 2 denote the times at which the magnitude of the DBD current starts to rise and reaches zero, respectively. Figure 3 shows the Q-V plots (a), and the transferred charge per slope and the consumed electrical energy per period (b) for the different HV slopes. For steeper HV slopes, larger values of Q DBD and E el were obtained. More precisely, the values of Q DBD and E el were approximately twice as large for the pulse with t 45 10%-90% = ns than for the pulse with t 200 10%-90% = ns. By analysing the electrical breakdown statistics, the applied breakdown voltage V b , the mean value of the DBD current maxima I DBD max , and the temporal discharge inception jitter t jitter can be determined. To obtain proper statistics, 12 000 subsequent voltage and current waveforms were recorded at rising and falling slopes for each of the HV pulses, using the FastFrame TM mode of the oscilloscope. The temporal distribution of the DBD ignition point was extracted from these data by counting the number of discharge events (i.e. discharge current peaks) per time step (see [34] for a detailed description of this procedure). A Gaussian temporal distribution was found for the three HV pulses, i.e. the breakdown conditions were reliably reached for all cases. Therefore, it is possible to determine the applied breakdown voltage using the centre t c of the temporal Gaussian distribution (V b ≡ V t t t c ( )| = ). The values for the applied breakdown voltage V b and DBD current maxima I DBD max are given in table 1, together with the temporal discharge inception jitter (t jitter = full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the temporal Gaussian distribution). The temporal discharge inception jitter increased with the slope rise time, while the applied breakdown voltage showed a maximum for t 80 10%-90% = ns. This behaviour was observed for the DBDs occurring at the rising as well as the falling slopes of the HV pulses.
The two-dimensional, spectrally integrated DBD emission structures obtained from the iCCD recordings are shown in figure 4 for rising and falling slopes, for t 45 10%-90% = ns and 200 ns. These structures feature a constricted channel in the volume, and surface discharges spreading on the dielectric surfaces. The iCCD images were accumulated over 1000 subsequent DBD events. The 2D emission structure of individual DBDs for t 45 10%-90% = ns can be found in [18], the spectrally resolved emission for these conditions is presented in [35]. Note that in the present conditions, the spatial discharge jitter is lower than the DBD emission diameter (FWHM), which is only slightly affected by the HV slope variation (at the rising slope (60 ± 10) µm and at the falling slope (30 ± 5) µm).
The emission structure along the discharge axis shows similarities with the structure of DC atmospheric pressure glow discharges (see, e.g. Engels et al [36] and Staack et al [37]). The 'negative glow' in front of the cathode, the adjacent 'Faraday dark space', and the 'positive column' can be distinguished. For both rising and falling slopes, the 'dark space' is clearly larger for t 200 ns 10%-90% = than for t 45 ns 10%-90% = . From figure 5, which presents the radially-integrated emission profiles along the discharge axis for the different HV pulse shapes, can be seen that the dark space is larger at the rising slope than at the falling slope for each value of t 10%-90% . In addition, the maximal intensity is generally lower at the falling slope.
The streak camera recordings shown in figure 6 visualise the spatio-temporal development of the DBD emission along the discharge axis, i.e. they allow the tracking of the  breakdown in the gap and the determination of the duration of the DBD emission. Generally, after a pre-phase the breakdown process starts with a fast cathode-directed propagation (positive streamer mechanism), which is followed by a transient glow-like discharge in the gap of about 5 ns duration.
For the analysis of the pre-phase, i.e. the phase before the streamer inception, the emission of the second positive system of N 2 (SPS, 0-0 transition at 337 nm) during the HV slopes in front of the anode (i.e. the region where the streamer starts) was recorded in a 100 ns time window, similar to the procedure in [21]. In figure 7, the SPS emission profiles during the pre-phase and the subsequent breakdown are shown together with the synchronised applied voltage. At the rising slope, the SPS emission grows exponentially during the pre-phase and then significantly increases to its maximum at t 100 ns = with the development of the cathode-directed propagation. The temporal emission profiles were normalised to their maximal values and shifted in time to reach the emission maximum at t 100 ns =
. At the falling slope, however, an additional structure arises during the pre-phase shown in figure 7: a local SPS emission maximum of about 10 ns duration, which becomes less intense and occurs earlier (compared to the emission maximum) for lower pulse steepnesses. Please note that this isolated SPS emission occurs for all three pulse steepnesses at the same drop of the applied voltage (≈2.5 kV, as indicated in figure 7). The same feature has been reported in [21] for pulse width variation, where it was related to the acceleration of residual electrons-which originated from the preceding discharge at the rising slope-due to the enhancement of the electric field during the voltage slope.
The streak image data shown in figure 6 were also used to estimate the velocities of the cathode-directed streamer propagation. These velocities are shown in figure 8 as a function of the streamer head position in the gap for all used HV pulse shapes at the rising and falling slopes. Though the velocities generally increase exponentially during the propagation to the cathode, particular features are observable for the various pulse steepnesses considered here. At the rising slope, the starting velocity is markedly higher for t 45 ns 10%-90% = than for the flatter pulse slopes. At the same time, the cathode is reached with almost the same velocity of about 2 × 10 6 m s -1 for all slope steepnesses. The behaviour of the propagation velocity is different at the falling slope, where it is largest for t 200 ns 10%-90% = and gradually decreases with increasing slope steepness. The largest differences in the velocity magnitudes for the different slope steepnesses occur when the propagation front approaches the cathode. Nearly the same velocity as at the rising slope is reached for t 200 ns 10%-90% = , while for t 45 ns 10%-90% = , the final velocity is lower by a factor of about 2.  Axial emission profiles in the centre of the gap extracted from iCCD images (accumulation of 1000 subsequent DBDs, iCCD gate width of 150 ns over the discharge current pulse, see figure 4). The intensity scale is directly comparable for the rising and falling the slope.
Figure 9 presents the synchronised 3 spatio-temporal development of the streamer propagation (e.g. the movement of the streamer head) for the axial positions where the propagation velocities were measured. For the rising slope, the spatial propagation starting points are at the same position for all HV steepnesses, but the propagations start earlier with decreasing pulse steepness. For the falling slope, on the other hand, the spatial starting points shift towards the centre of the gap with increasing HV steepness, with the propagation starting earlier for the steepest HV pulse (t 45 ns 10%-90% =
).

Discussion
The results confirm a significant impact of the HV slope steepness on both the electrical characteristics and the spatio-temporal breakdown behaviour of pulsed DBDs. An increase in HV pulse steepness led to a significant increase in the transferred charge and the consumed electrical energy per period (see figure 3(b)). This observation is in agreement with the findings of Komuro et al [23], Huang et al [25], and Borghi et al [38].
In this context it has to be pointed out that the variation of the slope steepness by inserting a resistor on the HV side leads to an additional energy loss, which could also contribute to the results reported in the previous section. However, if there is a significant impact of the current limitation due to the voltage drop over the resistor, a corresponding dip in the voltage 4  measured directly at the HV electrode would appear. This voltage shows no change when the discharge current starts to flow, the slope stays nicely exponential, i.e. like the charging of a RC element (see figure 2). As consequence of this fact, it can be assumed that there is a parasitic capacitance from the point of the voltage measurement against ground, which minimizes the inevitable limitation of the current by the resistor. The absence of a direct impact of the discharge current on the voltage at the HV electrode is a reasonable hint for the minor influence of the current limitation by the resistor.
Since the displacement current is directly proportional to the change of the applied voltage, it rose significantly with the HV steepness, and was in the same order of magnitude as the DBD current for the investigated voltage waveforms. The total electrical discharge currents also rose with increasing slope steepness (see figures 2(c) and(d)). However, the largest DBD current at the falling slope occurred for t 80 ns 10%-90% = , while a monotonic decrease in the DBD current maxima with decreasing slope steepness was observed at the rising slope. This behaviour cannot be explained by the change of slope steepness, only. In previous works [19,21,39], it has been pointed out that the magnitude of the DBD current sensitively depends on the pre-ionisation, i.e. the amount of charge carriers (electrons, negative ions and positive ions) in the volume before the applied voltage starts to rise/fall. The charge carrier ns and 200 ns (spectrally integrated and jitter-corrected accumulations of 600 single streak images, A = anode, C = cathode). The intensity is logarithmically scaled, and displayed in pseudo-colour. 3 Synchronised means that the spatio-temporal pathways of the streamer propagation for different HV pulses steepnesses were shifted to reach the cathode at the same time (t = 0 ns). generation and the built-up of space charges occurring during the pre-phase (i.e. the time of changing applied voltage before the actual breakdown) and finally leading to the streamer-like breakdown are strongly dependent on the pre-ionisation.
To investigate the impact of the pre-ionisation level in conjunction with a change of the voltage rise time in more detail, fluid model calculations were performed for the measured HV slopes, taking predefined Gaussian shaped charge carrier densities in the gap as an initial condition.
Figure 10 illustrates the calculated impact of the preionisation level (corresponding to the maximal initial charge carrier density) and the slope steepness on the discharge current density. For any fixed pre-ionisation level, the maximal current density drops with decreasing slope steepness. At the same time, a gradual decrease in the current density maxima with increasing pre-ionisation was predicted for each of the three HV pulses. These calculations suggest that the measured non-monotonic change of the DBD current maxima with changing slope steepness may be due to the combined influence of both the pre-ionisation and slope steepness.
The assumption that the pre-ionisation plays a significant role in the observed behaviour is furthermore supported by the presence of the isolated SPS emission during the pre-phase at the falling slope (figure 7), which has been found to be a direct consequence of residual electrons-i.e. pre-ionisation-in the gap [21]. The observed increase in discharge inception jitter with decreasing slope steepness (table 1) is due to the statistical nature of the breakdown process. The breakdown condition, i.e. the start of the cathode-directed propagation, is reached in a certain range around a specific value of the applied voltage (for the investigated cases approximately ±0.2 kV). Consequently, the temporal distribution of the moment of breakdown broadens with decreasing V t d d / . The Gaussian shape of this distribution indicates that the breakdown conditions are reliably reached for all used HV slopes with 10 kV amplitude.
At first glance the minimum of the applied breakdown voltage for the steepest HV pulse at the rising slope may seem counter-intuitive. A steeper slope leads to a reduced time for charge to accumulate in the pre-phase providing the localised space charge density, which finally leads to the start of the cathode-directed streamer propagation. Furthermore, a higher breakdown voltage for steeper voltage slopes has been reported, e.g. by Levatter et al [40] and Huang et al [25]. Again, a change of the pre-ionisation with changing slope steepness provides a possible explanation for the observed effect. The 'stronger' discharges (e.g. in terms of higher transferred charge and consumed electrical energy) occurring for steeper HV slopes results in an elevated pre-ionisation level.
To clarify this issue, the applied breakdown voltages in dependence of the overall pre-ionisation were calculated by the fluid model for the three slope steepnesses. The results are shown in figure 11, together with the measured breakdown voltages. On the one hand, the fluid model calculations confirmed the expected decrease in the breakdown voltage for flatter pulse slopes for any fixed value of the pre-ionisation in the range of 10 4 to 10 cm -. On the other hand, a distinct increase in the breakdown voltage with decreasing pre-ionis ation was predicted for all slope steepnesses. The calculated change of the breakdown voltage for changing pre-ionisation provides a rough estimation of the pre-ionisation level that corresponds to the measured applied breakdown voltages at the rising and falling slopes for each considered slope steepness. Figure 11 shows that the measured values of V b at the rising slope are well reproduced by the model calculations for a pre-ionisation of about 1 × 10 10 cm -3 (t 45 ns 10%-90% =
), 2 × 10 6 cm -3 (t 80 ns 10%-90% =
), and 3 × 10 4 cm -3 (t 200 ns 10%-90% =
). Hence, a decrease in the pre-ionisation level with decreasing strength of the discharges provides a consistent explanation for the unexpected drop of the breakdown voltage for steeper HV slopes.
The measured values of V b at the falling slope are reproduced by the model calculations for a pre-ionisation of about 2 × 10 cm is in good agreement with the findings in [21].
Note that the width of the initial Gaussian distribution influences the relation between breakdown voltage and pre-ionisation as shown in figure 11 quantitatively but not qualitatively. For a pre-ionisation <10 11 cm -3 the predicted breakdown voltages are about 5% smaller if a uniform initial charge carrier distribution is chosen instead of the Gaussian shaped distribution with a Gaussian width of 0.2 mm. Larger deviations of up to 15% are obtained for higher pre-ionisation. However, the general interrelationship between pulse steepness, pre-ionisation and breakdown voltage is not affected by the specific initial conditions chosen. Therefore, the model is explicitly not used to quantify the pre-ionisation but to explain the qualitative effects observed experimentally.
The prolongation of the 'Faraday dark space' with decreasing pulse slope steepness (see figure 5) shows the same trend as the electrical discharge current for the rising slope (see figure 2(c)), i.e. a higher discharge current leads to a shorter dark space. This was also predicted by the fluid model calculations for the density of the N 2 (C) state, which is responsible for the majority of the DBD emission. The reduced number of highly energetic electrons which can excite the N 2 (C) state by electron impact (excitation energy of ≈11 eV) induces the dark space extension for lower slope steepnesses.
The most striking result of this study is the behaviour of the cathode-directed streamer propagation in the gap for the different HV pulse steepnesses. At the rising slope, the starting velocity significantly reduced with decreasing HV pulse steepness, while the maximal velocity in front of the cathode was approximately the same for all slope steepnesses (see figure 8). This indicates that for the considered

V t d d
/ the propagation of the cathode-directed streamer is not affected by a change of the applied voltage. The representation of the position of the streamer head as a function of time for the rising slope in figure 9 shows that the total duration of the streamer propagation is shorter for steeper HV pulses. The increased acceleration for lower HV steepnesses suggests the need for higher velocities to generate sufficient   ) for each HV slope steepness.
charge carriers in front of the streamer head, to sustain the streamer propagation.
At the falling slope, however, the propagation velocities generally decrease with increasing HV slope steepness (figure 8). This is most likely a consequence of the increased preionis ation for the steeper pulses, because a high pre-ionisation leads to a significant slowing down of the cathode-directed propagation [21]. The position of the streamer head as a function of time for the different pulse steepnesses at the falling slope (figure 9) confirms this assumption. The spatial shift of the starting position of the cathode-directed propagation towards the cathode is a clear indication of residual space charges in the gap [21].

Conclusions
The following conclusions can be drawn from the present study of dielectric barrier discharges driven by HV pulses with different slope steepnesses in the range of V t d d 75 V ns 1 / = to 200 V ns -1 : (I) steeper slopes of HV pulses generally lead to larger electrical currents, higher breakdown voltages, increased charges transferred within single discharge events, and more consumed electrical energy per period; (II) the stronger discharges (in terms of (I)) occurring for steeper slopes of HV pulses cause a rise of volume memory effects (residual charges in the gap) which can significantly influence the breakdown properties at the rising slope for elevated pulse repetition frequencies and has an even stronger impact at the falling slope for typical pulse widths in the range of a few microseconds; (III) the steepness of the voltage slope clearly influences the axial emission structure (i.e. shorter 'dark space' for steeper slopes);
(IV) in the case of low pre-ionisation, the velocity of the cathode-directed propagation at the moment of breakdown inception is higher for steeper slopes of HV pulses because of the reduced pre-phase duration, but it is the same when approaching the cathode; generally lower propagation velocities occur in the case of an elevated pre-ionisation.
The present work thus confirms that the steepness of HV pulses is an important control parameter not only for discharges with bare electrodes, but also for filamentary DBDs.
Although it can be assumed that the limitation of the current by the external resistor-which was used for varying the HV slope steepness without changing the pulse generator itself-is of minor importance, an interaction between the DBD and the external circuit cannot be excluded. In particular, with the present results it is not possible to completely decouple the interacting effects of slope steepness and the amount of energy deposited into the discharge. Therefore, the separation of these two effects is an open question for future investigations.

