Abstract
The paper presents experiments on the spatial and temporal structure of the breakdown process of microdischarges (MD). For the first time simultaneous streak and iCCD images of individual filaments in a pulsed driven dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) with 1 mm gap in a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure are recorded. Furthermore current and voltage measurements with fast probes give access to the electrical discharge characteristics such as transferred charge and power. For asymmetric pulses there is a significant difference in the spatial structure as well as in the temporal behaviour of the MDs between the rising and the falling slopes of the high voltage pulse. If the time between rising and falling slopes is reversed all effects reverse as well. For symmetric pulses there are no significant differences between the MD at rising and falling slopes which is in accordance with a sinusoidal DBD operation.

Introduction
There is an increasing interest in atmospheric pressure discharges for technological applications. Due to their low gas temperature, high electron energy and the presence of active species these discharges have a high potential for plasma chemistry e.g. for ozone production as well as gas and water purification [1][2][3]. On the other hand, there is a broad range of open physical questions. In addition to corona discharges and micro hollow cathode discharges, dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) are often used in this field of application. Here, sinusoidal driven ones are basically used in practice [4]. Because of that, systematic studies on breakdown in airlike mixtures are mostly performed with sinusoidal driven dielectric barrier microdischarges (MDs) [5,6].
In recent years, however, there are applications where pulsed driven discharges show a better efficiency in pollution removal than sinusoidal driven ones. First investigations were performed in oxygen-nitrogen mixtures for the ozone production.
Salge et al [7] showed a considerable improvement of the efficiency of the ozone production when the discharge was driven in pulsed mode. Similar results for ozonizers were found by Eliasson et al [8], Braun et al [9] and also Williamson et al [10]. Others [11,12] studied the influence of pulse width variation on the production of various radicals and excited species in pulsed corona discharges and concluded that a short pulse is desirable for efficient production of radicals and excited species.
These results indicate the potential of pulsed MDs in practice and also show the necessity of performing optical and electrical investigations to understand the underlying processes. Recently, several papers on fundamental aspects of pulsed DBDs were published dealing with specific aspects the authors are interested in. The electrical behaviour of pulsed barrier discharges was studied by Liu et al [13]. Lukas et al [14] applied laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy to measure atomic density distributions of nitrogen in a single filament within a DBD reactor. Wu et al [15] studied filamentary structures and nanosecond dynamics in He/N 2 mixtures at atmospheric pressure in DBDs, Ito et al [16] in hydrogen. Heuser [17] performed first measurements with a streak camera in DBDs to get insight on the discharge development. Ivanov et al [18] also performed streak investigations of the initial phase of pulsed electrical breakdown of high-pressure gas for large discharge gaps with low resolution.
All papers show that optical diagnostics is an important tool to understand the basics of these plasmas and fast camera investigations give access to the spatio-temporal development of MDs. However, there is still a lack of understanding in molecular gas mixtures with respect to breakdown and discharge processes. In particular, there is additional need for simultaneous high-resolution measurements of optical as well as electrical properties.
The aim of this work is to extend the understanding of the basic processes of filamentary pulsed DBDs with precise measurements and explanations. The paper presents experiments on the electrical characteristics as well as the spatial and temporal structure of the breakdown process in nitrogen-oxygen mixture at atmospheric pressure as model system. A systematic study of the discharge behaviour is given by applying pulsed voltage and a variation of its amplitude and duty cycle. The comparison of pulsed operation with sinusoidal operation of the DBD will give deeper insight in the physical processes. Electrical parameters are detected simultaneously yielding further information about the discharges. The analysis of the spatial structure of the pulsed discharge and the change in streamer velocities for varied parameters are novel results in this context.

Experimental and diagnostic set-up
A symmetric dielectric barrier MD arrangement as shown in figure 1 is used for the investigation. It consists of a gas cell including alumina (Al 2 O 3 with ε r ≈ 9) covered metal electrodes. The gas cell is made of Plexiglas with gas inlet from top and outlet at the bottom. Two lateral quartz glass windows allow the observation of the MD from the UV to the near-infrared spectral range. The aim is to investigate single MDs. To ensure that subsequent MDs are located in the same position, half sphere electrodes covered with alumina are used similarly as in [19]. The dielectric barrier thickness is about 0.5 mm and the gap of the electrodes is 1 mm. These values are verified by x-ray measurements. The entire experimental set-up is shown in figure 2. The O 2 /N 2 gas mixture at 1 atm with a total flow of 100 sccm is flushed through the cell. The gas flow is adjusted by mass flow controllers (MFCs) (MKS 179B with control unit MKS 647B) connected to gas cylinders (gas purity of 5.0). A gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 is used; hence the discharge is always in the filamentary mode [20] as intended.
The discharge is driven by unipolar square wave pulses between 7 and 10 kV amplitude at a repetition rate of 10 kHz. The duty cycle is in most cases 10%, i.e. the pulse width is 10 µs and the pause is 90 µs. The voltage rise of the pulse is approximately 250 V ns -1 specified by the pulse generator (DEI, PVX-4110) which is supplied by a high voltage power supply (FUG, HCN 1400-12500). During the measurements the voltage amplitude and the duty cycle are varied. For  comparative measurements with a sinusoidal operation of the DBD a set of an arbitrary waveform generator (HP, 33120A), power amplifier (ALC, AL-1400-HF-A) and high frequency high voltage transformer (ALC, Al-T1000.6) is used as power supply. Electrical measurements are performed with fast probes and recorded with a 5 GS/s (bandwidth 500 MHz) digital sampling oscilloscope (DPO) (Tektronix, TDS 7054) to estimate the electrical power of the discharge. Current (Tektronix, CT-1) and voltage probes (Tektronix, P6015A) have rise times (10% to 90%) less than 0.35 ns and 4.67 ns, respectively. The MDs are observed simultaneously by a fast iCCD camera (Andor, iStar DH734-18U-A3) and a streak camera system (Hamamatsu, C5680-21C) connected to a far-field microscope (Questar, QM100) shown in figure 2. This allows us to magnify the discharge image by a factor of four which increases the spatial resolution significantly. With the iCCD it is possible to record images of single MDs and their propagation on the electrode surfaces (resolution: t 2 ns, x 10 µm). The streak camera images yield the spatio-temporal MD development along the discharge axis during rising and falling slopes of the electrical pulse with a high temporal and spatial resolution of 50 ps and 10 µm, respectively. The cameras are sensitive in the UV and visible spectral range and the images are recorded spectrally integrated in this study. Spectroscopic measurements are carried out in the discharge with a fibre optic spectrometer (Ocean optics, HR4000) in order to obtain overview spectra from the UV to the near-infrared spectral range.

Results and discussion
All the results presented here are for a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 and a positive unipolar pulse with voltage amplitudes V pulse between 7 and 10 kV. The electrical measurements for the rising slope are shown in figure 3 where (a) displays the voltage and current development for a whole pulse with V pulse = 10 kV with a duty cycle D of 10% (t pulse = 10 µs, t pause = 90 µs).
The pulsed operation leads to one single discharge at the rising and one at the falling slope, respectively. The detailed structure of the I -V characteristics at the rising slope is illustrated in a 200 ns time window, figure 3(b) shows the 10 kV pulse as an example. The voltage rise time to gain 10 kV is about 50 ns.
The measured current signal consists of the displacement current I dis and the discharge current I MD . The displacement current is measured for all pulse amplitudes when the corresponding voltage is applied and the MD did not ignite immediately. Because of the steep voltage rise the displacement current is in the same order of magnitude as the discharge current. In figure 3(c) the displacement current is already subtracted to reveal the discharge current for the MD at both slopes. It can be seen that the discharge current maximum at the rising slope is nearly twice the value of the falling slope. This fact is independent of V pulse at D = 10%, but the maximum value increases with the pulse amplitude, see figure 3(d). The time integration over one discharge current pulse allows us to determine the transferred charge Q MD for a single MD [13] using the capacitances mentioned in the next break
It equals for both slopes (the contribution of the unequal current amplitudes are equalized by different current pulse widths), but it also rises with an increase in V pulse . Obviously, in contrast to sinusoidal driven DBD [21] transferred charge and power in a single MD can be controlled by the voltage amplitude because the applied voltage still rises during the discharge. Figure 3(e) shows the values of Q MD at both slopes for different pulse amplitudes.
With the time development of the voltage V (t) as well as the charge Q(t) it is possible to draw an V -Q plot to reveal discharge characteristics like the consumed electrical energy or the capacitances of the DBD arrangement [1,22]. The voltage is measured directly by the voltage probe, the charge progress by summing up the measured discharge current in the following way using the elementary definition of Q:
(2)
So, for every time t = k • t the moved charge Q(t) in the system is obtained. Here a time step of t = 4 ps and a number of n = 50 000 (record length of the oscilloscope) for every slope, e.g. 100 000 data points are recorded for the whole pulse. The resulting V -Q plot is shown in figure 3(f ). To get proper results it is important to synchronize the signals of voltage and current for pulsed driven DBDs. Therefore, the relation of voltage time derivation, displacement current and capacitance of the DBD arrangement C tot is used (I dis = C tot • dU/dt). The amplitude matching of dU/dt to I dis also allows the calculation of the total capacitance which yields to C tot = (0.16 ± 0.01) pF for both slopes independent of the pulse amplitude. The procedure is described in detail by Pipa et al [23]. The enclosed area of the V -Q-Lissajous figure provides the electrical energy per cycle (rising and falling slopes) which is about 8 µJ for V pulse = 10 kV and decreases to approximately 3 µJ for V pulse = 7 kV. With the repetition frequency of 10 kHz the power of the MD can be calculated to about 80 mW and 30 mW, respectively. It should be noted that all measurements shown here are not accumulated but single shots with a reliable reproducibility. The two flat V -Q-Lissajous figure sides offer also the possibility to estimate the total capacitance C tot as seen in figure 3(f ). The errors of these sides are indicated in the figure. The value of C tot ≈ 0.16 pF is in good agreement with that obtained from matching dU/dt to I dis for all amplitudes and differs only marginally between the rising and falling slopes (lower and upper side of the Lissajous figure, respectively). The capacitances of the dielectric barriers C B can be calculated from the intersection of the upper right corners of the V -Q-Lissajous figure for different pulse voltages [23]. This development is approximately linear, the slope of the fitting line yields to (0.34 ± 0.02) × 10 -12 pF. Because of the symmetrical DBD arrangement this value corresponds to two capacitances C B connected in series, so C B = (0.68±0.04) pF.
For the voltage amplitudes 8, 9 and 10 kV the applied voltage at the time of breakdown V min is not changing. It is about 7.3 kV, marked by the bend in the V -Q-Lissajous figure (see inset in figure 3(f )) and the voltage value at the time of the rapid discharge current rise in figure 3(d), respectively. For V pulse = 7 kV the bend of the V -Q-Lissajous figure as well as the applied breakdown voltage is about 7.1 kV. Therefore, the MD ignition is delayed because the voltage barely reaches the necessary breakdown value. With V min ≈ 7.3 kV (for V pulse = 8, 9, 10 kV) and the known capacitances it is possible to estimate the voltage in the discharge gap just before breakdown (≈3.8 kV). Together with the gap width of 1 mm the reduced electrical field E/n can be calculated assuming the neutral gas density to be n ≈ 2.45 × 10 25 m -3 (ideal gas law with p = 1013 hPa and T = 300 K). Thus, the reduced electrical field strength at breakdown is: E/n ≈ 155 Td = 1.55 × 10 -19 Vm 2 , which is in good agreement with the literature data for O 2 /N 2 mixtures at atmospheric pressure [8,24].
The time integrated spectra of the discharge for 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 in the UV and blue spectral range are shown in figure 4. The electronic transitions of the NO and N 2 molecules are indicated, especially prominent are the second positive system of N 2 (SPS) and the first negative system of N + 2 (FNS) which are due to the following reactions:
SPS (excitation energy of N 2 (C 3 u ): E = 11.03 eV) is responsible for the major part of the emission, FNS corresponds to the progression of the electric field due to its high excitation energy (N + 2 (B 2 + u ): E = 18.81 eV) and the minor importance of stepwise ionization under these conditions [5]. The NO(A 2 + ) band emission is related to the metastable state N 2 (A 3 + u ) with E = 6.17 eV because the NO(A 2 + ) state is excited by collisions with N 2 (A 3 + u ) [25,26].
The following iCCD and streak measurements are presented for a pulse amplitude V pulse = 10 kV, there is no significant influence of V pulse to the spatio-temporal behaviour of the MDs if the pulse amplitude is above the aforementioned applied breakdown voltage of 7.3 kV. Only for V pulse = 7 kV are there differences which will be discussed elsewhere [27].
Figure 5 shows iCCD images of the investigated MDs. All pictures are in pseudocolour, i.e. red indicates highest and black lowest intensity. The labels anode (A) and cathode (C) are related to the potential difference established between the electrodes. In our case of a positive unipolar pulse the powered electrode is the anode during the rising slope. The charges generated in the MD at the rising slope attach to the electrodes (electrons, negative ions → anode, positive ions → cathode) and remain there on the dielectric barriers. The charge carriers build up surface charges which weaken the applied electric field in the gap until it is completely compensated. When the applied voltage decreases during the falling slope the electric field generated by the surface charges initiates the second MD. In this case the former anode is 'converted' to be the cathode due to the negative surface charge and vice versa. In sinusoidal driven DBDs there is an external polarity change as shown in figure 9(a).
The top row of figure 5 shows iCCD images of a single (individual) MD in the rising and falling slopes as well as the electrode arrangement without a discharge. The MD consists of a constricted channel in the volume and branching surface discharges which are well described in the literature [1,5,28]. The MD branches are more pronounced at the anode but there are surface discharge channels observed at both electrodes.
The diameter of the MD channel in the middle of the gap can be estimated from single iCCD pictures and is about 100 µm which is in good agreement with [29,30]. An accumulation of 1000 consecutive MDs is displayed in the bottom row of figure 5. The accumulated shots show that the branches of the MD channel remain stable and blur just a little on the surface. This demonstrates the good reproducibility of the MDs, which is important for any accumulating measurement [5]. For D = 10% there is a zone of reduced emission of the MD channels in front of the cathode. This structure is similar to glow discharges [31,32]. In the case of the rising slope this zone is more extended (approximately 25% of the discharge gap, less than 5% at the falling slope), independent of the pulse amplitude.
The streak camera images of MDs at both slopes under the same conditions as the iCCD measurements are displayed in figure 6. They are taken in the center along the axis of the discharge channel and visualize its spatio-temporal development. This leads to the one dimensional space diagram over time. The intensity is again in pseudocolour. The position of the electrode tips is marked by white lines. Due to the high sensitivity of the streak camera system it is possible to follow single discharge events of the MDs (top row of figure 6). Heuser [17] and Ivanov [18] did similar measurements in pulsed DBDs with 4 mm gap. But, to our knowledge, these are the first space and time resolved high-resolution recordings of single MDs with 1 mm gap in O 2 /N 2 mixtures at atmospheric pressure. To reveal more details of the MD development 1000 single MDs are accumulated (figure 6 middle row). The temporal jitter of the MD occurrence is removed by an effective and adjustable jitter correction procedure being part of the streak camera software. A comparison of single streak images and the accumulated ones exhibit the same structure, e.g. the reproducibility of MDs is also verified by the streak camera measurements. The discharge process starts with the accumulation of positive space charges in the pre-breakdown phase and the subsequent propagation of a cathode directed ionizing front (CDIF or positive streamer) followed by a short lasting transient glow discharge [6,33,34]. Surface discharges in their temporal development can also be seen on the electrodes. This spatio-temporal behaviour is similar to sinusoidal driven MDs as shown in figure 10.
The exact duration of the pre-breakdown phase for the pulsed driven DBD cannot be estimated properly with the streak camera measurements because of the low emission in this phase. But according to the streak camera signal just above the detection limit (see figure 6, bottom row), it has to be at least 3 ns as reported in [34]. There is also an upper limit for the pre-breakdown phase duration of 50 ns, because of the steep pulse slopes the voltage rises only during this time, see figure 3(d). For sinusoidal driven DBDs the voltage is usually several hundreds of nanoseconds before ignition in the same order of magnitude as the breakdown voltage, so the pre-phase could be much longer [6,33].
There are significant differences between the MD at the rising and falling slopes operated in pulsed mode with asymmetric pulses. The comparison of both MDs in figure 6 exposes that the MD at the rising slope has a shorter discharge duration than the MD at the falling slope.
Taking the emission profile spatially integrated over the gap as a measure for the duration of the MDs, 3.2 ns are obtained for the rising and 4.4 ns for the falling slope, respectively (full-width at half-maximum). This is also independent of the pulse amplitude as it was proved.
The analysis reveals furthermore a higher velocity of the CDIF for the rising slope compared with the falling slope. The CDIF in front of the cathode is approximately two times faster at the rising slope (v R ≈ 1.3 × 10 6 m s -1 ) than during the falling slope (v F ≈ 0.6 × 10 6 m s -1 ).
As already mentioned, there are also significant distinctions in the discharge current (figure 3) and the spatial structure (figure 5) between the MDs at rising and falling slopes for an asymmetric duty cycle. In order to analyse this in greater detail the time between the MDs is varied by modifying the duty cycle while leaving the repetition frequency f rep constant: The results are displayed in figures 7 and 8 for V pulse = 10 kV.
For asymmetric pulses the time between rising and falling slopes is reversed and so are the effects.  all cases a cathode directed ionizing front can be seen, but its propagation velocity depends on the time delay to the preceding discharge.
In figure 8(c) the CDIF velocities are plotted semi-logarithmically over the gap to show the exponential acceleration towards the cathode. The CDIF propagation velocity development is reversed, too. The differences between the discharge current maxima are consistent with the CDIF velocity behaviour. When the CDIF propagates faster it generates more charge carriers and so the discharge current maximum rises, too. However, the total transferred charge is equal for both slopes due to the short discharge duration. For symmetric pulses (D = 50%) there are no significant differences between the MDs at rising and falling slope. Here current pulse shape and amplitude are identical for both slopes. Also, the same spatial structures are observed as well as the equal CDIF velocity.
In order to compare pulsed and sinusoidal driven DBDs the discharge is operated with U pp = 14 kV and f = 20 kHz for 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 . The results are presented in figures 9 and 10. In this special case, there is one discharge per half-cycle. Here current pulse shape and amplitude are identical for both half cycles. Also, the same spatial structures are observed as well as the equal CDIF velocity in front of the cathode of approximately 0.5 × 10 6 m s -1 . This is in accordance with the pulsed symmetrical DBD (D = 50%) in which the MDs show the same behaviour at both half cycles. But, the CDIF velocity for sinusoidal operation is little smaller than for D = 50%. This spatio-temporal behaviour is in almost the same manner as sinusoidal driven MDs investigated by crosscorrelation spectroscopy (CCS) [5]. Similar structures are obtained when comparing the results shown in figure 10 with those presented for the second positive system of N 2 at 337.1 nm in [5]. The propagation velocities of the cathode directed ionizing fronts calculated from CCS measurements for sinusoidal driven MDs in the same arrangement in air at atmospheric pressure [6] are in the same order of magnitude (∼10 6 m s -1 ) as obtained from the streak images figure 6 bottom row, figure 8 and figure 10, respectively.
The similar behaviour of sinusoidal driven DBDs and DBDs operated by a symmetrical pulse is due to the same  time delay between the MDs. It should be mentioned that the voltage rise times for pulsed mode are three orders of magnitude higher than for sinusoidal operation.
The MD characteristic depends essentially on the charge deposition at the dielectric surfaces, so these processes have to take place on a ∼10 µs time scale to explain the difference when changing the duty cycle. Even though it is not expected that elevated densities of metastables could be present [35,36] the lifetime of the N 2 (A 3 + u ) for 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at atmospheric pressure is in this order of magnitude (∼10 µs) that metastable N 2 could influence the MD properties. Furthermore, background ionization has a significant influence on the positive streamer characteristics at high operation frequencies too [37,38].
But, the general discharge development as described above, i.e. CDIF followed by transient glow discharge, remains the same at both slopes. This behaviour changes markedly when the time between two MDs is reduced to the ion drift time which is approximately 1 µs for 1 mm gap [34]. The required ion drift velocities v dr of N + 2 and O + 2 are calculated from the electric field E br g over the gap at breakdown (≈38 kV cm -1 ) and ion mobilities µ ion of N + 2 and O + 2 [39] using v dr = µ ion • E br g . One advantage of pulsed operation is the possibility of an independent selection of voltage rise and delay time to the preceding discharge and therefore to choose a certain type of plasma. We believe that these results show that a well-chosen change in the pulse width can be utilized to modify the discharge breakdown and thus vary the basic plasma parameters. Further investigations will be performed spectrally selective to gain access to the electron density n e and to the reduced electric field E/n by means of a kinetic model [33].

Summary and outlook
Simultaneous streak and iCCD shots of single individual MDs in a 1 mm gap dielectric barrier MD in a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 are recorded. There are significant differences of MDs in the rising and in the falling slope for an asymmetric pulse. In the case of a duty cycle of D = 10% there is a higher current maximum at the rising slope of the pulse. The spatial structure of the MD differs between both slopes. The zone of lower intensity in front of the cathode is larger during the rising than the falling slopes and the intensity distribution differs. The discharge lasts longer during the falling slope and the cathode directed ionizing front propagates faster in the rising slope for D = 10%. The time between the MDs has a significant effect on the discharge physics. If the time between rising and falling slopes is reversed then all effects are reversed, too. So, the different rest periods between the MDs affect the crucial processes in the DBD. Consequently for symmetric pulses there are no significant differences between the MDs at rising and falling slopes which is in accordance with sinusoidal operation of the DBD. Pulse width variation gives hence the possibility to control the discharge properties down to the level of fundamental plasma parameters. Obviously, in contrast to sinusoidal driven DBD transferred charge and power of a single MD can be controlled by the voltage amplitude.
The implementation of these results on the plasma chemistry of exhaust treatment application is the subject of our further research. Further investigations with temporal, spatially and spectrally resolved measurements will be performed to gain access to the electron density as well as to the reduced electric field.

