Abstract
An atmospheric-pressure dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) in argon is investigated using a time-dependent and spatially two-dimensional fluid-Poisson model in axisymmetric geometry. The focus is on the streamer-surface interaction and the cathode-layer formation during the first discharge event in the single-filament DBD driven by sinusoidal voltage. A characteristic structure consisting of a volume streamer propagating just above the dielectric and simultaneous development of an additional surface discharge near the cathode is observed. The analysis of the electric field, electron production and loss rates, and surface charge density distribution shows that the radial deflection of the volume streamer is driven by free electrons remaining in the volume from the Townsend pre-phase and guided by the radial component of the electric field. The surface discharge occurring between the deflected volume streamer, which acts as virtual anode, and the dielectric surface is governed by ion-induced secondary electron emission and the surface charges accumulated on the dielectric.

Its propagation is driven by direct ionisation of argon atoms in
Figure 3 presents (a) the temporal evolution of the electric current I, the applied voltage U a , the gap voltage U g , the memory voltage U m = U a -U g and (b) the accumulated surface charge Q, as well as (c)-(f ) the spatial distribution of the number density of electrons and excited argon atoms at times t 1 -t 4 . These times correspond to the arrival of the volume streamer at the cathode surface (t 1 ) and different moments of the cathodelayer formation phase (t 2 -t 4 ). Here, it is important to note that the gap voltage is calculated as the potential drop across the gap at radial position r = 0.
During the streamer propagation phase (t t 1 ), the electric current steeply increases and reaches a local maximum at t = t 1 , while the gap and memory voltages remain almost constant in this time range (cf figure 3). A similar current shape was observed in [34][35][36]. According to [34,35] and in agreement with the present results, the local current maximum is attributed to the streamer arrival at the cathode and is caused by the displacement current due to the reconfiguration of the electric field. It should be noted that this feature (local current maximum) is the result of a continuous process of balancing electron production and losses (see below), which leads to slowing down and eventual stopping of the streamer propagation. In figure 3(c) it can be seen that at time t 1 a thin gap of about 40 μm with small electron density is formed between the streamer head and the dielectric boundary. In the time range t 1 -t 2 the volume streamer is deflected and continues propagating along the surface (cf figure 3(d)). At the same time, the ion-induced emission of secondary electrons causes a secondary breakdown in the gap between the streamer head acting as a virtual anode and the dielectric cathode. With this, the surface charges start to accumulate on the dielectric surface (cf figure 3(b)), which is accompanied by a steep increase of the memory voltage and corresponding drop of the gap voltage as well as a further rise of the electric current (cf figure 3(a)). In the time range t 2 -t 4 , a surface discharge starts to propagate in the gap between the radially propagating volume streamer and the dielectric surface (cf figures 3(d)-(f )). Note that the double-layer structure caused by the deflected volume streamer and the secondary discharge in the sheath region shows similarities with the observation of Sharma et al [27] for a surface DBD in argon, where the splitting of a surface streamer into a surface branch and a volume branch results in a similar structure near the dielectric surface.
With ongoing coverage of the surface by the discharge, the accumulated surface charge increases further. This finally leads to a drop of the electric field and initiation of the decay phase as described, e.g. in [18]. The maximum current is reached at about 70 ns after streamer initiation and 42 ns after the arrival of the streamer at the cathode (cf figure 3(a)).
When looking at the spatial profiles of the excited argon atoms shown in figures 3(c)-(f ), it becomes obvious that they closely follow the behaviour of the electrons. The radial distribution of Ar * is a bit more broadened than that of the electrons because of the lower energy threshold for electron-impact excitation compared to the ionisation of argon.
In order to determine the reason for the volume streamer deflection and the appearance of the surface discharge, the electric field E is analysed in figure 4. It shows the spatial distribution of the magnitude | E| (left column), radial component E r (middle column) and axial component E z (right column) for the characteristic times t 1 -t 3 . From the spatial profiles of the electric field at t 1 it can be seen that E r becomes of the same order of magnitude as E z when the volume streamer approaches the cathode. This is caused by the broadening of the streamer head when approaching the dielectric and affects the further streamer development. Namely, the requirements for streamer propagation are the existence of free electrons in front of the streamer and the specific configuration of the electric field directing these electrons towards the streamer head [18]. As the number of free electrons in front of the streamer drops due to the shrinking space in front of it, the propagation slows down and eventually stops independently of the magnitude of the axial component of the electric field. However, free electrons in the volume near the streamer head resulting from the Townsend pre-phase (cf contour lines in figure 3(c)) and the high radial electric field provide the conditions for continuation of the streamer propagation in radial direction (cf t 2 -t 3 in figure 4). It should be stressed that this happens before the ions produced during the streamer phase are able to reach the surface and induce the excessive emission of secondary electrons. Although photo processes play an important role in air-like gases [16][17][18], in the argon plasma considered here, they are not expected to have an impact on the discharge as an additional electron source. Therefore, surface processes do not affect the deflection and further propagation of the volume streamer.
Simultaneously to the deflection of the volume streamer, the cathode layer is formed in the narrow region just in front of the cathode surface (cf t 2 in figure 4). Due to the increase of space charge density and the drastic reduction of the cathode sheath to about 6 μm, the magnitude of the electric field reaches a maximum value of about 95 MV m -1 in front of the cathode surface for a few nanoseconds around t 2 . This corresponds to a reduced electric field of about 3900 Td, where 1 Td = 10 -21 Vm 2 . This large electric field causes the onset of the surface discharge, which starts to propagate just above the cathode surface. Note that the surface discharge contributes to the charge accumulation much more than the deflected volume streamer, which continues to propagate about 30 μm in front of the dielectric surface.
Figure 5 explains how the reconfiguration of the electric field at arrival of the streamer at the cathode and the amplification of the radial field component causes the deflection of the volume streamer. The axial cut (r = 0) of the electron source term S e and the divergence of the electron flux ∇ • Γ e shown in figure 5(a) for times shortly before (t = t 1 -0.2 ns and t = t 1 -0.1 ns) and after (t = t 1 + 0.1 ns and t = t 1 + 0.2 ns) the moment of the streamer arrival at the cathode surface (t = t 1 ) exhibit a decreasing tendency of these quantities over time. At t = t 1 -0.2 ns, the electron production rate is much higher than the transport loss rate and a significant gain of electrons due to transport can be observed behind the ionisation front. At t = t 1 -0.1 ns, both rates keep decreasing and become more balanced. A similar tendency can be observed at t = t 1 and t = t 1 + 0.1 ns, noting that the movement of the ionisation front slows down. At t = t 1 + 0.2 ns, the production and the loss of electrons at the axis balance each other out. This leads to the cessation of the streamer propagation along the discharge axis near z = 1.46 mm. At the same time, the variation of the rates in radial direction is opposite to that in axial direction (cf figure 5(b)). At t = t 1 -0.2 ns the electron source term as well as the divergence of the  electron flux are near zero because this instant is before arrival of the streamer head at the represented axial position. With arrival of the streamer (t = t 1 -0.1 ns and t = t 1 in figure 5(b)) both rates increase and for later times the radial development of the streamer exhibits similar properties as observed during the axial propagation (cf t = t 1 + 0.2 ns).
The results of the present analysis support the assumption that the particular field configuration and source of free electrons determine the direction of the streamer propagation and the increasing electron production rate S e in radial direction around t 1 (cf figure 4) explains the deflection of the volume streamer.
In addition to the inhomogeneous electric field, surface charges play an important role in the surface streamer development and the cathode-layer formation. In order to illustrate this, the spatial distribution of the surface charge density σ along the dielectric boundary (i.e. circular distance on the dielectric, measured from the axis of symmetry of the discharge at the centre of the electrode) is represented in figure 6. It can be seen that the accumulation of surface charges is negligible until the streamer reaches the cathode at t 1 . Then, the amount of accumulated surface charges starts to increase near the centre of the electrode around t 2 , i.e. when the secondary breakdown at the plasma-surface interface occurs. This increase of the surface charge density can be attributed to the amplification of the ion flux caused by the strong electric field (cf t 2 in figure 4). At the same time the surface charge accumulation leads to a local reduction of the axial electric field, which causes the radial shift of the electric field maximum and triggers the propagation of the surface discharge just above the dielectric. This appears to be related to the findings in [18] for a surface DBD. Note that the cathode layer formation phase appears to be similar to the findings for a metal cathode in [13,14], where a limited radial expansion of the cathode layer has been observed. Here, the discharge moves along the surface until almost the whole surface is covered, similar to the behaviour observed in the experiment of [33] for a single-filament configuration with hemispherical electrodes. The curved boundary and the virtual anode provided by the deflected volume streamer give enough space for charge generation and thus for the undisturbed development of the discharge along the surface.
As the surface discharge move further along the surface, the accumulated surface charges expand in circular direction on the dielectric surface (t 2 -t 6 in figure 6), which causes a continuous drop of the electric field and finally the decay of the discharge.
It is interesting to note that after passing of the surface discharge, the cathode region resembles that of a normal glow discharge, in which the deflected volume streamer acts as a virtual anode and electrons are emitted from the dielectric cathode due to ion-induced secondary electron emission. This finding is in accordance with [13,14,18]. It is illustrated in figure 7, which shows line profiles of the electric field as well as the number densities of electrons and ions between the dielectric surface (cathode) and the outer plasma filament acting as virtual anode. Similar profiles are observed at the symmetry axis (r = 0) and at the quarter of the electrode, but the densities of charge carriers are higher near the symmetry axis due to the stronger electric field in that region.
Finally, figure 8 compares the spatial distribution of the Ar * density at time t 6 to an artificially calculated emission profile, which was obtained from the Ar * density by Abel transformation using the pyAbel software [37]. This illustrates that the presented modelling results for the species densities cannot directly be compared with data obtained from optical measurements. The line-of-sight integration results in the highest emission signal at the plasma-surface interface while the density has a maximum in the middle of the gap. Furthermore, the distinct features of cathode-layer formation appear to be hidden to a large extend after Abel transformation.
In summary, the appearance of the simultaneous propagation of a volume streamer and development of a surface discharge near the cathode surface in a single-filament DBD in argon is investigated by means of time-dependent, spatially two-dimensional modelling in axisymmetric geometry. The analysis shows that the primary propagation of the volume streamer across the dielectric surface results from the strong radial component of the electric field, which is mainly caused by the electrode configuration and broadening of the streamer when it approaches the surface. The development of the surface discharge is governed by secondary electron emission and the surface charges accumulated on the dielectric. Furthermore, by analysing the electron number density profiles, and electron production and loss rates, it is confirmed that the appearance of a local maximum in the current can be attributed to the arrival of the streamer at the cathode surface. It is shown that this process is not instantaneous, and occurs slowly due to balancing of the electron production and loss rates. In conclusion, the local maximum of the electric current can be used for reliable estimation of the time of the streamer arrival at the cathode surface, which can be further used for the correlation of optical and electrical measurements.

