Abstract
As a logical extension to previous investigations of the barrier discharge (BD) in helium and nitrogen, the present work reports on the operation in any mixtures of both pure gases. Using a well-established plane-parallel discharge cell configuration allows to study the influence of the He/N 2 mixing ratio on the formation of different discharge modes. Their characterization was made by measuring the discharge emission development together with the formation and decay of surface charges on a bismuth silicon oxide (Bi 12 SiO 20 , BSO) crystal. This was realized by the simultaneous application of the spatio-temporally resolved optical emission spectroscopy, and the electro-optic Pockels effect in combination with a CCD high speed camera. The existence diagram for diffuse and filamentary BDs was determined by varying the amplitude and shape of the applied voltage. Over the entire range of the He/N 2 ratio, the diffuse mode can be operated at moderate voltage amplitudes whereas filamentation occurs at significant overvoltage and is favoured by a high voltage slew rate. Irrespective of the discharge mode, the overall charge transfer during a discharge breakdown is found to be in excellent agreement with the amount of accumulated surface charges. An exponential decay of the surface charge deposited on the BSO crystal is induced by LED illumination beyond a typical discharge cycle. During the decay process, a broadening of the radial profiles of positive as well as negative surface charge spots originating from previous microdischarges is observed. The investigations contribute to a better understanding of the charge accumulation at a dielectric.

Introduction
Atmospheric-pressure barrier discharges (BDs) provide a comparatively easy possibility to generate non-thermal plasmas at elevated pressure serving as an effective source of radicals and excited species.
Hence, BDs became indispensable in numerous industrial applications, such as ozone synthesis, surface treatment, and recently also in life science [1][2][3][4][5]. This economic importance as well as the specific discharge properties (e.g. non-stationary, short breakdown duration, statistical behaviour) motivates the study of the breakdown phenomena which is a challenge to plasma diagnostics.
It is well known that BDs can be operated as microdischarges (MDs) appearing as thin filaments, or in laterally diffuse modes, namely the so-called atmospheric-pressure Townsend-like discharge (APTD) and the atmosphericpressure glow-like discharge (APGD). Both from a practical as well as from a fundamental point of view, the knowledge of the formation criteria for these different discharge modes is crucial. Their appearance can be manipulated by the discharge cell configuration (e.g. gas gap spacing, properties of dielectrics) and various operating conditions (e.g. pressure, flow, and composition of the working gas, amplitude, frequency, and shape of the applied voltage) [6][7][8][9]. The present work is focused on the formation and development of different BD modes by varying systematically the gas mixture composed of helium and nitrogen as well as the amplitude and the shape of the applied voltage. Filamentary and diffuse BDs were characterized by electrical, spectroscopic and surface charge measurements. The experiments were performed over the entire range of the He/N 2 mixing ratio in continuation to previous investigations on the BD operation in pure helium and pure nitrogen [10,11].
As the default case, MDs has been observed in air, but also in pure nitrogen, and some others [12][13][14][15][16]. At elevated pressures, the rapid gas ionization can bring forth a significant build-up of space charges near the anode. This is followed by the propagation of a cathode-directed ionizing wave as the origin of MD formation [17,18]. The spatially fixed re-ignition of an individual MD in up to ten subsequent operating periods is favoured by the localized surface charge accumulation (memory effect) [10].
An APGD is typically observed in rare gases like helium and neon. This discharge mode is ascribable to a relatively high gas ionization at a comparatively low electric field [7,19,20]. A crucial role is assigned to the metastable states of noble gases by inducing a variety of multistage elementary processes [7,21,22]. It turned out that the development of a cathode fall region during the discharge breakdown defines the essential element of an APGD [15,[23][24][25].
An APTD results from the Townsend breakdown if the ratio of secondary electron emission at the cathode to the ionization in the discharge volume is sufficiently high [13,20]. It is typically formed in nitrogen. Primarily, this is due to the presence of metastable N 2 (A 3 + u ) molecules which provide enough energy to enhance secondary electron emission [26,27]. The APTD is characterized by an exponential increase in the electron density towards the anode and a low space charge production [21].
The existence ranges of filamentary and diffuse BDs are barely investigated in gas mixtures of helium and nitrogen. By varying the He/N 2 mixing ratio, the electron energy distribution, electron multiplication and quenching of metastable species changes effectively and should cause discharge mode transitions.
Moreover, uniform surface charge deposition and secondary emission of trapped or intrinsic electrons from the dielectrics are assigned to be crucial to the homogeneity of BDs [28][29][30]. But up to now, the mechanisms of charge accumulation and charge release are poorly understood. Although there are theoretical efforts to describe these surface processes based on a micro-physical model [26,31], any experimental results under comparable conditions are still missing. Hence, as a further new aspect the decay of surface charges on a dielectric bismuth silicon oxide (Bi 12 SiO 20 , BSO) crystal was investigated. Based on this experiment, an interpretation of the physical nature of surface charges will be given.
The outline of the presented work is as follows. In section 2, the experimental set-up and the diagnostic methods will be briefly reviewed. In section 3, the results will be presented and discussed concerning the characterization of different discharge modes operated in helium, nitrogen and any binary mixtures.

Experimental set-up and diagnostics


Discharge cell
Figure 1 shows a detailed sketch of the axially symmetric discharge cell. An arrangement of two plane parallel electrodes each covered by a different dielectric material is used.
The lower dielectric electrode consists of a grounded aluminum block with an polished mirror on its top side which is covered by an undoped electro-optic BSO crystal. The upper electrode is connected with a high voltage generator driving the discharge. It is made of glass which is coated on its top side with a thin layer of electrically conductive and optically transparent indium tin dioxide (ITO, sheet resistance < 20 /sq.). This combination allows both the discharge operation as well as the determination of surface charges on the BSO crystal by illumination from top. Insulation plates made of PEEK and PMMA guarantee a fixed gas gap spacing, g = 1 mm, between both dielectrics. Moreover, two orifices enable a constant gas flow entering in between the discharge gap, and the investigation of the discharge emission. Before the experiment starts, the vacuum chamber which contains the discharge cell is pumped to a base pressure below 10 -5 mbar to reduce the amount of impurities. Afterwards, it is filled with well-defined mixtures of helium with nitrogen (respective cleanness >99.999%) up to the operating pressure of 300-500 mbar. Both pure gases are mixed by a multi-gas controller (MKS 647c) via gas flow rates up to F = 100 sccm.
The entire diagnostic set-up is illustrated in figure 2. It enables the joint application of (i) electrical measurements of the applied voltage, discharge current and transferred charge, (ii) the optical emission spectroscopy (OES) disclosing the spatio-temporal development of the discharge emission, and (iii) surface charge measurements at one discharge cell configuration under identical and well-defined operating conditions.

MC PM FG


Electrical measurements
A function generator (SRS DS345) provides both sine wave as well as square wave voltage waveforms (f = 2 kHz) connected with a high voltage power supply (Trek 615-10, amplification 1:1000) for the purpose of the discharge operation (see figure 2). The applied voltage U ext (t), the total discharge current I tot (t) and the charge transfer Q(t) are measured via a high voltage probe (1000 : 1), a resistor (R = 100 ) and a capacitance (C = 1 nF) to ground, respectively. The temporally resolved electrical signals are recorded with a digital oscilloscope (Tektronix TDS3034B).
Beyond, using Q(U ) plots (so-called Lissajous figures) allows access to the transferred charge Q during the discharge breakdown, and the determination of the capacitances C d and C tot of the dielectrics and the entire discharge cell, respectively. The latter can be understood as the series connection of C d with the gas gap capacitance C gap . The internal quantities (within the gas gap) are representative of the discharge operation and were recalculated from the measured external quantities [33]:
where I net (t) denotes the plasma-induced net current, U gap (t) is the voltage drop across the gas gap, and U 0 = U(t = 0) takes into account the surface charges deposited during the previous half-period of the applied voltage.

Spectroscopic measurements
The formation of the filamentary or diffuse BD depends on the presence of different plasma species (e.g. electrons, metastables) which induce fast direct and comparably slow multistage ionization processes, respectively, as well as the excitation of radiative states. So, the investigation of the discharge emission allows to draw conclusions on important elementary processes which influence the BD formation in systematically varied He/N 2 mixtures. The overview spectra of the discharge emission are presented in figure 9 comparing the operation in pure nitrogen (figure 9(a)), the binary gas mixture He/N 2 (1 : 1) (figure 9(b)), and pure helium (figure 9(c)), in each case for sine wave and square wave feeding voltage shape.
The spectra were recorded 0.1 mm in front of the glass electrode acting as (i) the anode in the positive half-period and as (ii) the cathode in the negative half-period of the applied voltage. At this position, the maximum time-integrated (10 s per 0.1 nm) emission intensity was detected. In the wavelength range λ = 200-800 nm, the spectra show emission lines and bands originating from the working gas mixture He/N 2 and from always present gas impurities (oxygen, and water vapour). Mainly, the second positive system (SPS) as well as the first negative system (FNS) of nitrogen, the NO γ system and some He I lines have been observed. Beyond, the OH(A) band, an emission line of the hydrogen Balmer series and the oxygen triplet line (3 5 P → 3 5 S, 777 nm) were identified.
Increasing the voltage slew rate dU ext /dt by the change from sine wave to square wave voltage shape (at constant voltage amplitude) effects a higher power input. The result is an increase of the emission intensity. The spectra for pure nitrogen (figure 9(a)) and He/N 2 (1 : 1) (figure 9(b)) are dominated by the SPS of nitrogen and the NO γ system. The NO γ emission follows the density profile of the metastable molecules N 2 (A 3 + u ) [38]:
where ν denotes the vibrational quantum number. Equation ( 5) represents the most intensive transition (ν = 0 → ν = 3) of the NO γ system. However, the band emission of the SPS (maximum intensity for ν = 0 → ν = 0) results from the de-excitation of the radiative state N 2 (C 3 u ) predominantly generated by inelastic collisions between electrons and nitrogen in the ground state:
But, in absence of significant oxygen impurities as an effective quencher of metastable nitrogen molecules N 2 (A 3 + u ) the state N 2 (C 3 u ) is also populated via the pooling reaction [38]:
The important role of the metastable species N 2 (A) for the diffuse BD in nitrogen is due to an effective slowdown of the gas ionization by γ processes at the cathode [26,27]. In contrast, the formation of MDs is favoured by a comparably high ionization rate dominated by fast electroninduced processes.
The overview spectrum measured in pure helium (figure 9(c)) is dominated by the FNS of nitrogen and some He I lines. Figure 10 shows the development of the FNS emission (ν = 0 → ν = 0) across the gas gap comparing the APTD in pure nitrogen (figure 10(a)) and the APGD in pure helium (figure 10(b)). As characteristic for the APTD, the maximum emission (white dashed line) is located in front of the anode. This is due to an exponential increase of the electron density towards the anode at a nearly constant electric field strength across the gas gap. However, the global maximum of the emission originating from the APGD is observed near the cathode. This is ascribable to a high electric field gradient defining the typical cathode fall region.
Moreover, depicting the normalized development of the discharge emission at its maximum position (white dashed line) as well as the normalized discharge net current reveals information on the dominant excitation channel of the FNS (see figure 10). As can be seen in figure 10(a), both the rising slope and the maximum of the emission profile coincide with the net current. So, in pure nitrogen the FNS is descended from the radiative state N 2 + (B 2 + u ) mainly populated by electron impact excitation:
Due to the high excitation energy E = 18.7 eV, the measured FNS (0-0) intensity is barely above the ground level considering the spectra in figures 9(a) and (b).
In contrast, operating the discharge in pure helium (nitrogen as impurity) the FNS emission profile is delayed by about 2.5 µs with respect to the net current (see figure 10(b)). This delay results from the dominant population of the state N + 2 (B) via ionization of N 2 (X) by metastable helium species [39]: Figure 10. Spatio-temporally resolved emission of N + 2 FNS (391.4 nm) for: (a) the APTD in pure nitrogen (resolution: temporal 1.5 µs, spatial 0.05mm) and (b) the APGD in pure helium (resolution: temporal 0.1 µs, spatial 0.05 mm). The electrode positions and the axial position of the emission maximum are marked by white solid lines and a white dashed line, respectively. Note that the emission intensity is also detected beyond the electrode boundaries but this is due to light refraction at the transparent dielectric layers. Above, the emission evolution at maximum position and the discharge current are temporally correlated and normalized to their maximum.
Here, He m includes the metastable species He(2 1 S), He(2 3 S), and He 2 (2 3 ) which provide the energy necessary for a resonant excitation via the so-called Penning ionization [37]. According to a numerical simulation of the APGD in helium, the maximum contribution of the Penning ionization to the overall gas ionization is delayed a few microseconds compared to the net current [21]. So, in helium the FNS of nitrogen impurities serves as an indicator of the metastable species He m , especially at low power inputs which allow to operate a diffuse BD.
However, the most intensive He I line in figure 9(c) originates from inelastic electron collisions with helium in the ground state:
He(1 1 S) + e → He(3 3 S) + e, (14) He(3 3 S) → He(2 3 P ) + hν (706.5 nm). ( 15)
The measured intensities of the He I line at λ = 706.5 nm and the FNS (0-0) emission are comparable in the overview spectra 9(c). In the presence of nitrogen impurities, the metastable helium species can significantly contribute to the development of a diffuse BD by inducing a variety of slow multistage processes and enhancing secondary electron emission at the dielectric-covered cathode.

Surface charge measurements
3.3.1. Formation of surface charges. Temporally resolved surface charge measurements were already done in pure helium and pure nitrogen [10,11]. The present work reports on He/N 2 mixtures. Operating a diffuse BD, the amount of homogeneously distributed surface charges, Q = σ • A, was recalculated from the surface charge density σ in equation ( 3) taking into account the electrode area A = 1.77 cm 2 .
In figure 11(a), the discharge net current, the temporally integrated net current and the corresponding phase-resolved surface charge accumulation are shown for the APTD operated in He/N 2 (1 : 1). During the discharge breakdown, the transferred charge accumulates on the dielectric-coated electrodes. Consequently, the respective dielectric is charged with a periodically changing sign according to the net current polarity. In between the breakdowns, the amount of surface charges (Q + in the positive half-period, and Q -in the negative half-period) remains constant.
Figure 11(b) shows the overall charge transfer Q = Q + -Q -, comparing the APTD operation in pure helium and pure nitrogen, as well as in selected binary mixtures. In particular, Q means the transferred charge when (i) analysing the steep slope of the accordant Q(U ) plot in figure 8(a) or (ii) integrating the net current in equation (1). However, Q corresponds to the accordant amount of surface charges using (iii) the electro-optic Pockels effect.
The comparison of the overall charge transfer from the measurement and the calculation related to the three methods (i)-(iii) reveals an excellent agreement. All generated charge carriers which contribute to the discharge net current are actually accumulated on the dielectrics.
Under the conditions studied, the charge transfer Q ≈ 13 nC in pure nitrogen is more than ten times higher than in pure helium ( Q ≈ 0.7 nC) which agrees with former results [10,11]. As already mentioned, this difference is justified by a significantly longer net current duration in nitrogen compared to helium (see figure 7). So, the higher the nitrogen admixture to helium the higher is the accumulated surface charge. The increase of Q is approximately linear. This is similar to the trend of the He/N 2 ratio-depending burning voltage necessary for the operation of the APTD (see figure 5(a)).
In figure 12, the filamentary mode operated in the binary gas mixture He/N 2 (3 : 1) is characterized by the discharge net current (figure 12(a)), the spatial distribution of the surface charge density (figure 12(b)), and a schematic illustration of the 3D profiles of single charge density spots (figure 12(c)). As can be seen in figure 12(a), generating only a few filaments just above the respective burning voltage (U ext = 1.5 kV) leads to their simultaneous re-ignition. This enables the interaction between adjacent current channels so that they arrange in hexagonal pattern [9,29]. This spatial structure is sustained by the localized surface charge accumulation (memory effect).
Related to the fixed phase positions (230 µs and 480 µs, no discharge), the spatial distribution of the surface charge density σ is shown in figure 12(b). The individual surface charge spots mark the positions of previous filaments. The spots are situated on a differing charge density offset comparing the positive (left) and negative half-period (right). It is assumed that these offsets are justified by a bias which is build up during the discharge breakdown due to different γ e coefficients of glass and BSO [35].
Moreover, the separated filaments allow to figure out the radial profiles of positive (left) and negative surface charge spots (right), as schematically shown in figure 12(c). The charge density profiles are Gaussian-distributed. As indicated, the full-width at half-maximum (FWHM) differ for positive (FWHM + = 0.9 mm) and negative charge density spots (FWHM -= 1.6 mm), which is in agreement with results in [10].
Most likely, the formation of positive surface charges means the generation of defect electrons inside the dielectric via recombination of plasma ions at the dielectric surface [31]. However, negative surface charges are supposed to be electrons. During the discharge breakdown, the initially accumulated surface charges sidetrack the following charge carriers of same polarity as they approach the dielectric surface. The lateral extent of the surface charge spots of both polarities depends on the differing charge carrier mobility considering ions and electrons [10,29].
In order to measure the surface charge distribution phaseresolved, the timestamp of the camera exposure is shifted along the operating period (T = 500 µs). When the accumulation process is finished, the radial charge profiles in figure 12(c) remain unchanged, so they do not widen until the following breakdown occurs in the subsequent half-period. This result demands a kind of surface charge capture due to the presence of a trapping potential.
A one-dimensional model of the plasma-induced modification of the effective potential in axial direction allows access to the surface charge location along the interface between the plasma and the dielectric, as well as inside the dielectric [40]. The authors identified the materialspecific electron affinity χ to be the crucial parameter which determines this axial location. Defect electrons declared as positive surface charges are situated in the valence band of the dielectric material. The plasma electrons get either trapped in low-energy image potential states just in front of the crystallographic material boundary (χ < 0, e.g. MgO, CaO) or in the conduction band inside the dielectric (χ > 0, e.g. SiO 2 , Al 2 O 3 ) with subsequent energy relaxation by phonons.
According to our knowledge, the electron affinity of BSO has not yet been determined. In figure 12(b), maximum amounts of the charge density of 10 nC cm -2 to the respective ground level has been observed. Assuming a two-dimensional electron layer in front of the BSO surface (χ < 0), these locally high charge carrier densities would cause a broadening of the radial profiles due to Coulomb repulsion, perceptible on the sub-millisecond scale. However, the observed stability of the surface charge profiles confirms the assumption of a charge trapping in deeper levels just inside the BSO crystal (χ > 0), but not in shallow traps at the interface to the plasma.

Experimental results and discussion


BD operation in He/N 2 mixtures
The BD operation was investigated in gas mixtures of helium with nitrogen striving for completion of previous results in both pure gases [10,11]. Under the operating conditions studied (gas gap distance g = 1 mm, working frequency f = 2 kHz), the generation of the diffuse BD (APTD and APGD) and the filamentary BD succeeded, as can be seen in figure 5.
The existence diagrams of the discharge modes are shown for systematic variation of both the He/N 2 mixing ratio over its entire range as well as the amplitude Ûext of the sine wave (figure 5(a)) or square wave feeding voltage (figure 5(b)). The respective voltage drop Ûgap across the gas gap was recalculated from equation ( 2). The burning voltage was defined as the lowest voltage amplitude across the gas gap which allows to sustain the discharge. It was determined after a sufficient time of operation leading to ongoing stable discharge properties.
In figure 6, the individual discharge modes noted in figure 5 are characterized by the accordant temporal profile of the discharge net current and photographs of their spatial appearance. Starting with the APTD, it is typically formed in pure nitrogen (figure 6(a)).
But, when applying a sine wave feeding voltage (see figure 5 generation of the APTD for each of the He/N 2 mixing ratio, too. This diffuse discharge mode occurs at a relatively close voltage range just above the respective burning voltage. In pure helium the APTD is only observed in a sufficiently small gas gap in agreement with former results [10,11]. For moderate power inputs, it is assumed that the gap distance of 1 mm is too small for the development of a cathode fall region. The latter is characteristic for the APGD in helium, mainly observed in gaps of 2-5 mm [19,21,24].
The electrical behaviour of the APTD differs when varying the He/N 2 mixing ratio. In figure 7, the feeding voltage U ext (t), gap voltage U gap (t), and net current I net (t) are shown over a half operating period in pure nitrogen (figure 7  The discharge breakdown in pure nitrogen and in He/N 2 (1 : 1) starts early related to the phase of the feeding voltage (figures 7(a) and (b)). This is due to a large amount of surface charges accumulated during the previous half-period of the applied voltage. In the subsequent half-period, these surface charges favour the discharge re-ignition. From the beginning of the discharge breakdown, the decrease of the electric field across the gas gap caused by currently accumulating charges is compensated by an increase of the feeding voltage U ext (t). The latter continues to rise for several tens of microseconds up to its maximum. This compensation can be seen from the almost constant value of the gap voltage U gap (t) during the breakdown.
In contrast, the discharge ignition in pure helium initiates just before the feeding voltage reaches its maximum (figure 7(c)). This is due to a comparatively small amount of surface charges accumulated during the previous half-period. So from the beginning of the discharge breakdown, the feeding voltage U ext (t) rises poorly. The currently accumulating charge is high enough to cause a decrease of the gap voltage U gap (t) during the discharge which limits the duration of the net current pulse.
Hence, operating the APTD in pure helium at a higher amplitude of the feeding voltage allows the occurrence of several successive Townsend-like breakdowns per half-period (figure 7(d)). The multi current peaks are fixed to the phase of the feeding voltage and were identified as current oscillations  [24]. This discharge mode is observed for small admixtures 10 vol.% of nitrogen to helium, too. All in all, the higher the nitrogen admixture to helium the higher is the transferred charge during the discharge breakdown, defined as Q. This is confirmed by the accordant steep slope ( Q Liss ) in figure 8(a). Here, the Lissajous figures are presented for the sine wave driven APTD comparing the different working gases (i) pure nitrogen, (ii) pure helium and (iii) the binary mixture He/N 2 (1 : 1).
Considering the working frequency f and the area A enclosed by the respective Q(U ) diagram allows the calculation of the averaged power input per cycle, P = f • A. The dissipated power in pure nitrogen is P = 108 mW. This is more than a hundred times larger than in pure helium (P = 0.75 mW) due to the greater area A caused by both a higher amount of transferred charges Q Liss as well as a higher voltage amplitude Ûext necessary for the discharge operation in pure nitrogen.
For a nitrogen admixture higher than 10 vol%, an increase of the external voltage amplitude results in the coexistence of the diffuse APTD and the filamentary mode (see figures 5(a) and 6(c)). The so-called hybrid mode is generated in the positive half-period of the applied voltage whereas in the negative half-period only the diffuse mode is observed. This is due to the asymmetric discharge cell configuration. Different secondary electron emission coefficients (γ e ) of glass and BSO lead to different discharge conditions in both halfcycles [35]. The hybrid mode occurs in the positive half-period (BSO as cathode) which suggests that BSO has a smaller γ e coefficient than glass. It is assumed that the plasma electrons are trapped in additional band gap states (induced by impurities and lattice defects) and even in deep energy levels of Bi 12 SiO 20 made up by BiO 7 complex ions bound to cation vacancies [34]. Hence, these electrons are harder to release than from shallow traps at the interface to the plasma [30,36].
Over the entire range of the He/N 2 ratio, overvoltage leads to the formation of individual MDs distributed randomly in space and time, as can be seen in figure 6(d). The relative difference between the burning voltage and the overvoltage necessary for filamentation increases slightly with the percentage of helium in the gas mixture. This is due to a stronger dependence between the effective ionization coefficient and the reduced electric field strength when operating in nitrogen compared to helium. Typical values for the net current amplitude and pulse duration of a single filament are about 1-2 mA and up to several hundreds of nanoseconds, respectively.
The change from sine wave to square wave feeding voltage shape results in a significantly higher voltage slew rate (up to dU ext /dt = 250 V µs -1 ). As illustrated in figure 8(b) for the operation in pure helium, applying the square wave feeding voltage causes a three times higher power input P = 2.5 mW compared with the sine wave operation (P = 0.9 mW) at the same voltage amplitude ( Ûext = 0.4 kV). Due to the higher ionization rate, the square wave feeding voltage allows the formation of the APGD in pure helium despite the small gas gap distance of 1 mm (see figure 6(b)), as already shown in [11]. However, for nitrogen admixtures > 4 vol% to helium, the square wave operation changes to the filamentary mode (see figure 5(b)). Molecular nitrogen causes effective quenching of metastable helium atoms and excimers [37]. The latter two induce a variety of multistage processes (Penning and chemo ionization, secondary electron emission) essential for the generation of the diffuse BD in helium. Due to the higher power input, the square wave feeding voltage induces the immediate ignition of MDs almost irrespective of the working gas mixture, as shown in figure 5(b). Reducing the voltage amplitude to a value just above the respective burning voltage enables the formation of statical filament structures, as can be seen in figure 6(e). As already known, individual MDs show variances in the amount of locally accumulated surface charges which favour more or less their repetitive re-ignition [29]. At critically low gap voltage amplitudes only a few MDs are preserved. As a limiting case ( Ûgap approaches the burning voltage), even single filaments could be generated. Figure 6(e) shows that the remaining filaments ignite simultaneously necessary to interact with each other, and typically form hexagonal pattern [7,29].

Decay of surface charges.
The lifetime of surface charges was measured after turning off the discharge. Figure 13(a) shows the decay of the positive surface charge density over time after turning off the diffuse BD in pure nitrogen. The large amount of accumulated surface charges (see figure 11) is favourable for the measurement accuracy at a fixed minimal uncertainty of 0.2 nC cm -2 .
The abatement of the surface charge density can be described by the superposition of two exponential decays with different decay constants k 1 and k 2 [41]:
The decay process 1 (k 1 ) is characterized by a significant decrease in the surface charge density within the very first seconds. Its physical cause is under discussion, though it is suspected in the tunnelling process applying the model in [40].
However, the photo-induced decay process 2 (k 2 ) proved to be appropriate to discuss the axial location of positive as well as negative surface charges, although only specific of the BSO crystal. Continuous illumination leads to a surface charge lifetime on the second scale. In contrast, pulsed illumination results in lifetimes on the minute scale. In the case of none illumination of the BSO crystal (approximated), the charge density has died away after several tens of minutes probably due to a still existing dark-conductivity or other recombination channels. Figure 13 (b) illustrates the approximation procedure. For selected times t during the decay process, the respective surface charge density σ t (f LED ) was extrapolated to f LED → 0.
In table 1, the decay constants for both surface charge polarities are summarized. The negative surface charges decay on the same time scale but slightly faster than the positive ones. Nevertheless, this suggests that generally the same process leads to a decrease in the surface density of totally different species (electrons, defect electrons).
Most likely, the responsible mechanism is the photoconductivity which is a typical property of the sillenites Bi 12 M O 20 (M = Si, Ti, etc). It means the photo-induced transport of  charge via additional energy states within the band gap of the BSO crystal. It is associated with the redistribution of recombination flows involving fast and slow recombination centres, even in deep levels [34]. For the chosen wavelength λ = 634 nm of the LED light, this intrinsic transport process is significantly effective. Although other possible optically stimulated mechanisms cannot be excluded, e.g. as observed when using alumina electrodes [28], the charge transport and recombination should take place just inside the BSO crystal but not at the interface to the plasma. So, e.g. photodesorption can be excluded. This is due to the absence of both charged particles as well as an external electric field ( Ûext = 0) outside the crystal. So, there would be no recombination and transport of imaginary released electrons. But, at least one of these processes would be necessary to explain the observed decrease of the measuring signal. Because the latter is justified by an accordant decrease of the electric field across the BSO crystal made up by the accumulated charge.
In figure 14, the decay of surface charges after turning off the filamentary BD in pure nitrogen (gas pressure p = 300 mbar, square wave voltage amplitude Ûext = 2.3 kV) is presented. Figure 14 (a) illustrates the photo-induced decay of positive surface charge density spots for different times during the decay process (f LED = 1/20 Hz). There is no remarkable difference between the decay constants of homogeneously accumulated surface charges and localized surface charge spots resulting from the operation of diffuse and filamentary BDs, respectively.
However, a slow broadening of the radial profiles of positive and negative surface charges is observed on the minute scale. Most likely, this is due to thermal diffusion of the photoexcited charge distribution with a typically small intrinsic mobility in Bi 12 SiO 20 [36]. During the decay process, the FWHM -of the negative charge spots increases by a factor of about 1.5 while the FWHM + becomes more than four times larger, as shown in figure 14(b). The dashed lines indicate the end of the decay process.
All in all, even for continuous illumination the decrease of the surface charge density takes place on the second scale. So, there is no photo-induced influence of the light originating from the LED or plasma on the surface charge development during the discharge cycle. Using alumina electrodes, the optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) emitted from the dielectric after plasma exposure showed a similar decay [28]. It was suspected in charge recombination processes of electrons detrapped by illumination, too. According to the model in [40], when using Al 2 O 3 (χ > 0) the plasma electrons are trapped within the conduction band with subsequent energy relaxation just inside the dielectric. It is assumed that the same is valid for Bi 12 SiO 20 .
However, when using MgO and CaO (χ < 0) it is expected that the electrons are situated in shallow traps within the interface between the dielectric and the plasma. A correspondingly effective release of trapped electrons was observed by thermally stimulated current measurements in experiments with quartz and PTFE [30].

Summary
In continuation to previous investigations in pure nitrogen and pure helium, the present work reports on barrier discharges in He/N 2 mixtures characterized by electrical, spectroscopic and surface charge measurements. The existence diagram of filamentary and diffuse BDs is obtained by varying both the He/N 2 ratio over its entire range as well as the amplitude and shape of the applied voltage. Increasing the voltage amplitude Ûext and the voltage slew rate dU ext /dt results in a higher power input effecting a higher ionization rate which favours the formation of microdischarges.
The variation of these parameters allows the generation of diverse discharge modes: the diffuse APTD and the filamentary BD in any He/N 2 mixture, the diffuse APGD in the range He/N 2 > 96/4, static filament structures in He/N 2 < 96/4, and the coexistence of the diffuse mode and the filamentary mode in He/N 2 < 90/10. The latter is observed only in the positive half of the operating period. It is assumed that the BSO crystal has a smaller γ e coefficient than the other dielectric, glass. This is probably due to the trapping of plasma electrons in deeper states within the BSO crystal making those harder to release than from shallow traps within the interface to the plasma.
Some fundamental correlations between electrical, spectroscopic and surface charge measurements are presented.
The net current induced by the discharge breakdown correlates with the temporal development of the discharge emission. The latter acts as an indicator of either fast electron impactinduced processes or slower multistage ones which dominate the discharge formation depending on the He/N 2 ratio. For all the varied conditions, the overall charge transfer during the discharge breakdown is in excellent agreement with the amount of accumulated surface charges.
Operating the filamentary BD, localized spots of positive and negative surface charges on the BSO crystal mark the positions of previous MDs. On the one hand, the Gaussiandistributed radial profiles of these charge spots are shaped by the differing mobility of electrons and ions when approaching the dielectric surface. But on the other hand, the profiles remain constant when the accumulation process is finished. This is a further indication for the charge trapping in deep levels of the BSO crystal. A profile broadening is only observed on the minute scale probably due to intrinsic thermal diffusion.
As another clue, the photo-induced decay of positive and negative surface charges takes place on the minute scale, too. Most likely, the responsible mechanism is the photoconductivity which is typical of the sillenites. This effect is associated with the redistribution of recombination flows between fast and slow recombination centres involving both impurity states within the band gap as well as deep levels.
Bi 12 SiO 20 is useful for surface charge measurements but it has specific physical properties. To avoid intrinsic recombination processes influencing the surface charge distribution it is planned to cover the BSO crystal with a transparent dielectric which is exposed to the plasma. In this way, the surface charge accumulation can still be investigated but on more common dielectric materials, such as alumina or silicon oxide.

