Abstract
A 1D fluid simulation was developed to investigate the influence of negative ions in a helium-oxygen barrier discharge between two glass plates at a distance of 3 mm . The paper describes setting up the simulation for a pressure of 500 mbar and an admixture of 400 ppm oxygen to helium. In order to enable the comparison with laser photodetachment experiments, the simulation is adapted to the experimentally observed discharge current and gap voltage by varying gas temperature, flux of thermally desorpted electrons and secondary electron emission coefficients. The discharge is characterized by evaluation of the most important elementary collision processes as well as the kinetics of the charged species. Besides, the influence of long-living species on the discharge behavior is taken into account by long-time simulations. The negative ions are characterized by their spatio-temporal distribution in the gap and their production and loss processes. The comparison between simulations without and with consideration of negative ions reveals the importance of negative ions on the discharge development.

Introduction
Barrier discharges are one of the most commonly used discharge types for applications at atmospheric pressure [1][2][3]. Mostly, mixtures including an inert carrier gas such as helium or argon and an admixture of a reactive gas, such as oxygen, are used. The inert gas ensures low breakdown voltages and power requirements, whereas oxygen provides radicals participating in volume and surface processes. Since oxygen is strongly electronegative, negative ions are formed and may influence the discharge development. The electron attachment processes can reduce the effective ionization and the negative ions have a larger recombination probability than electrons. In the case of helium-oxygen barrier discharges, the transition from the diffuse mode at low oxygen admixtures to the filamentary mode for larger oxygen admixtures might be correlated to the increase in electronegativity [4]. To analyze the influence of negative ions on the diffuse helium-oxygen barrier discharge, a laser photodetachment experiment was performed [5]. It turned out that the laser photodetachment of negative ions during the pre-phase of the discharge results in an earlier ignition of the discharge itself, but no influence was observed when the laser photodetachment took place during the discharge breakdown. Hence, the electronegativity in the pre-phase might be larger than during the breakdown because of the enhanced attachment at low electric fields. To survey this idea quantitatively, a simulation is necessary. Many simulations of barrier discharges were already performed [6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14][15][16]. They are based on fluid model calculations because of the high collision rates at elevated pressures which makes the local field approximation applicable. Supplementary to these barrier discharge simulations, simulations of atmospheric pressure discharges exist for pure helium [7,17], helium with small impurities [7,13,15,[18][19][20], or helium-oxygen mixtures [21][22][23][24]. Despite these numerous simulations, a quantitative comparison with the experiment presented in [5] is difficult because of the different discharge types or conditions. Furthermore, the influence of the attachment processes and the resulting negative ions are often not pointed out in these publications or a distinction between the discharge breakdown and the pre-phase is missed. Therefore, a simulation for helium-oxygen barrier discharges is developed which is as close as possible to the experimental conditions of the laser photodetachment experiment in [5].
The paper starts with a short description of the setup used for the experiment in section 2. Since the simulation was set up by our own, a large part of this paper is devoted to the simulation details (section 3). Section 4 is focused on the adaption of the simulation to the experiment. Afterwards, the discharge characteristics as the electron kinetics and the accumulation of long-living species are discussed in section 5. In the last part of the paper (section 6), the kinetics of negative ions and their influence on the simulation are analyzed.

Experiment
Since this contribution focuses on the simulation of the experimentally investigated discharge, only a brief description of the experimental setup is given here. More details can be found in [5]. A sketch of the barrier discharge configuration is shown in figure 1. The discharge configuration consists of two plane and circular electrodes which are covered by 0.7 mm thick glass plates. The glass plates are separated by a 3 mm gap. The discharge configuration is surrounded by a stainless steel vacuum chamber to enable a base pressure below 10 mbar 5 before the experiment starts. During the discharge operation, helium-oxygen mixtures with a maximum oxygen concentration of 1 vol.% and a pressure of 500 mbar flow at 300 sccm through the discharge configuration.
For the discharge characterization, the sinusoidal applied voltage U appl and the total charge Q ext were measured directly and across an external capacitance C  3.4 nF ext = via an oscilloscope (LeCroy 9304AM). The discharge current
and the gap voltage
were calculated using the gas gap capacitance C gap , the capacitance C diel of the dielectrics, the total capacitance C tot of the discharge configuration, and a parallel capacitance C par considering the surroundings. Since the ratio C C par diel / depends on the unknown diameter of the discharge, gap voltages for three different discharge diameters are considered when comparing the experiment with the simulation. Besides the electrical characterization, the optical emission was measured by a monochromator in combination with a photomultiplier tube. It enables to follow the spatio-temporal evolution of the optical emission during the discharge, and its comparison with the simulated excitation rates. According to the experiment, an admixture of 400 ppm oxygen and a sinusoidal applied voltage of 700 V in amplitude is considered for the simulation. For these conditions, a stable diffuse discharge was present. The most important discharge parameter are summarized in table 1. For significantly larger oxygen admixtures, the discharge became filamentary and the 1D fluid simulation is inappropriate.

Description of the simulation


Geometry and electric field
The one-dimensional geometry used for the simulation is sketched in figure 2. The figure shows a symmetric dielectric barrier discharge configuration with a gap width of g 3 mm = . The used dielectric barriers consist of two glass plates with thickness d 0.7 mm = and relative permittivity 7.6 d ε = . The charge density distribution in the gap is z t , ( ) ρ and the surface charge densities on the dielectrics are t 1 ( ) σ and t 2 ( ) σ . Since the total charge is conserved, the sum of the charges in the gap and at the dielectrics is zero:
To calculate the electric field
Gauss's law for the electric displacement field D(z, t)
is integrated stepwise for the gap and the dielectrics, as done in [6]. Since the spatial integration of the electric field must equal the applied voltage U appl ,
the electric field in the gap (0
,
with
This analytic formulas enable a fast determination of the electric field by avoiding the numerical solution of the Poisson equation for the electrical potential. Note that the surface charge density 2 σ is no longer present in the final equation because of the total charge conservation (3).

Particle classes and transport processes
The simulation includes the helium atom and the oxygen molecule in their ground states serving as the background gas.
are calculated from the pressure p 500 mbar = and the assumed gas temperature T gas . These background gas densities are kept constant during one simulation run. To investigate the influence of the gas temperature on the simulation, the simulation is performed for different gas temperatures from 300 to 350 K .
The other particles, such as electrons, ions, and neutrals, are described spatially and time-dependent by balance equations,
including the respective particle density n k , the flux k Γ , and the total rate S k of production and loss by collisions. For charged particles, the flux is the sum of the drift flux
(+for positive charges,for negative charges) depending on the particle density n k , the mobility k µ , and the electric field E, and the diffusion flux
including the diffusion coefficient D k . For neutral particles, the total flux equals the diffusion flux.
For the gas pressure of 500 mbar , the local field approximation is valid, which means that the electron energy distribution is given by the reduced electric field strength at a certain position. This allows the calculation of the electron transport parameter as the mobility e µ , the mean thermal energy k T B e , the diffusion coefficient D e , and the thermal velocity v th,e for a given reduced electric field strength E/n by using the electron Boltzmann equation solver BOLSIG+ [25,26]. The included collisions are elastic and inelastic collisions with helium atoms (see table A2) with cross sections from the databases at lxcat.net. Collisions with oxygen molecules are not considered since they have no remarkable influence on the electron kinetics for the low oxygen admixture of 400 ppm .
To speed up the numeric calculation, the electron transport parameter are approximated by a polynomial function or a combination of two polynomial functions p 1 and p 2 with an exponential function:
The actual agreement of these approximations with the values obtained from BOLSIG+ is visible in figure 3.
For the ions, the mean energies
and diffusion coefficients
are calculated from their mobilities and the electric field [27].
The mobilities for the ions in helium are taken from lxcat.net and the respective databases [28][29][30][31][32][33]. Since the mobility of O 4 + ions in helium is not listed at lxcat.net, it is set to the mobility of O 2 + ions. The influence of the low oxygen admixture on the mobility is neglected. Again, the data points are fitted by polynomial functions to enhance the calculation speed. A comparison of the obtained data and the polynomial functions is given in figure 4. For + He , an analytical function is already given by [28,29].
In table 2, the diffusion coefficients for the neutral species are listed for standard conditions (10 Pa 5 , 290 K ), scaled with pressure p and gas temperature T gas .

Considered species and elementary collision processes
The considered helium species in the simulation are the ground state helium atom He, its metastable He m state, and the helium dimer He  . Besides these particles, photons are considered regarding their contribution to the secondary electron emission, but not in any volume reactions.
The implemented elementary collision processes are listed in the appendix. Most rate coefficients are initially taken from [21]. They are given depending on the mean electron energy T e , gas temperature T gas , or reduced electric field strength E/n. Whenever the simulation points out a process to be important for the total ionization or the attachment, the rate is recalculated by BOLSIG+ [26] using cross sections taken from lxcat.net, if present.
Most important for the simulation is the excitation of helium metastables (e01), which is considered here as the sum of the excitation rates of the He 2 S -) [37], which is faster than the typical discharge time scale of the order of microseconds. The excitation of the He 2 P 1 ( ) state (e02) is included as an immediate source of UV photons, because there is a very fast transition from the He 2 P 1 ( ) state to the helium ground state (∼10 s 9 1
-) [37]. Its transition to the He 2 S 1 ( ) metastable state is negligible because of the much lower transition probability (∼10 s 6 1 -). Furthermore, it was assumed that the UV photons reach immediately the dielectric surfaces or get lost in radial direction outside the discharge volume. The interaction with oxygen is neglected because of the low oxygen concentration. The flux of UV photons to one dielectric
is estimated using the ratio of the cross section area of the discharge

≈
, the flux of UV photons to one dielectric is about one fourth of the spatially integrated excitation rate (e02). Similar to the UV photons, the rate of photons at a wavelength of 706 nm is calculated from the excitation rate of the He 3 S 3 ( ) state. This rate is used for the comparison with the measured optical emission, only.    Almost all other collision rates are calculated straightforward. Some three particle collisions are marked in table A2. Their rate coefficients are usually given for three particle collisions with oxygen as background gas, but helium should also serve as a good third collision partner because of its small mass. These unknown rates are set to the same value as the known rates for the collisions with oxygen.

Boundary conditions for particles at the dielectrics
The boundary conditions for particles reaching the dielectrics are taken from [27], but without the distinction between secondary electrons and electrons from the volume. The electrons are fully adsorbed at the boundaries, the ions become neutralized, the helium metastables become de-excited, and the helium dimers are dissociated. Only for the long-living species O,
( ) Σ + and O 3 , a particle reflexion is considered. Although different coefficients are given for different species in [20,22], only one unique reflexion coefficient r is taken for the listed species (compare table A1). The reason is the unknown validity of the given coefficients for a glass surface. Even if coefficients for glass would be given, the coefficients might actually differ because of the surface modifications by the discharge or because of the surface charges on the dielectric. The unified reflexion coefficient r was varied between 0.9 and 1 to see its influence on the simulation results (see section 5.2).
For the secondary electron emission several processes are regarded. The secondary electron emission by positive ions, UV photons, and metastables are given by the secondary electron emission coefficients γ + , ph γ , and m γ , respectively. It is partially considered that these coefficients depend on the surface charge density on the dielectric. Besides, the electron desorption flux J des regards thermally desorpted electrons from the surface. Since the secondary electron emission coefficients are widely unknown, their influence on the simulated discharge is analyzed in section 4.

Starting conditions and steady state
The start of the simulation is set to the time where the gap voltage is zero. This point in time depends on the surface charge, which is taken as an initial value from the experiment. The initial densities of charged particles are set to a constant value of 10 cm 3 3
-across the gap, for helium metastables and dimers to 10 cm 2 3
-. Actually, the simulation turns out that these values are unimportant when starting at U 0 gap = , even for the first breakdown, because the charged particles get already lost after a few microseconds at the dielectrics. Furthermore, because of the comparably large oxygen concentration, the helium metastables and dimers disappear until the discharge pre-phase starts. Hence, the only important starting condition is the surface charge density determining the gap voltage and the onset of the breakdown. Besides, the long-living oxygen species O,
( ) Σ + and O 3 need a starting value. Their density profiles are estimated by long-time simulations over 20 discharge periods. After these 20 discharge periods, their density profiles remain nearly unchanged.
Taking the discussed starting conditions, the simulation takes about two or three discharge periods to reach a steady state, hence, there is no difference between the third and fourth discharge period. Thus, for the characterization of the discharge, four discharge periods were simulated and the last one is discussed. For the adaption of the simulation to the experiment in section 4, it is appropriate to calculate only one discharge breakdown for one parameter set.

Numerics
The chosen numerical procedure to solve the differential equations is the explicit Euler method. Time steps t t j j 1 -+ are given and the particle density at t j+1 is calculated from the density at t j and the rates given by the currents and particle collisions at t j :
For the discretization of the drift flux an upwind scheme is used, which gives
and
(+for negative charges,for positive charges). The diffusion flux is calculated by
The overall flux gradient is discretized by
At the beginning of each loop, the electric field is calculated from the particle densities using equation (7). From this electric field, the fluxes k Γ and the collision rates S k are calculated. To accelerate the simulation, the processes are categorized in slow, intermediate, and fast processes. Variable time steps are used for each category, depending on the necessary temporal resolution. The sizes of these time steps are calculated with the restriction that the respective densities change at most by 5%. As fast processes, only the electron transport is considered and the time steps are in the range from 10 -11 to 10 -10 s. For the intermediate time scale, fast collision processes, e.g. electron impact excitation, are taken into account. These time steps are usually between 10 -10 and 10 -9 s. Slower processes are calculated with time steps of 10 -8 to 10 -7 s.
The spatial grid consists of 60 cells with a respective size of z 0.05 mm ∆ = . Using this grid size, the electron drift velocity v d,e , and the time steps for electron transport
fast / ∆ ∆ is 0.04 in maximum. Hence, the Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy condition is fulfilled. Nonetheless, simulations with finer grids were performed for comparison, and they reveal the same discharge behavior.

Adapting the simulation to the experiment
Despite the rates for most elementary collision processes involving helium and oxygen are well known, some important simulation parameter are widely uncertain and must be figured out by adapting the simulation to the experiment. These remaining free parameters are the secondary electron emission (SEE) coefficients and the gas temperature. In particular, the dielectric surface is charged which means the SEE coefficients probably depend on the deposited surface charge. First of all the dependency of the simulation on the SEE coefficients and gas temperature is investigated and afterwards the best values are chosen for an adapted simulation.

Overview of SEE processes
A simulation with typical values for the SEE coefficients is shown in figure 5. In that first approach, the SEE coefficients for ions, metastables, and UV photons are set to 0.01 γ = + , 0.1 m γ = , and 0.05 ph γ = . In figure 5(a), the characteristic electrical quantities as the applied voltage U appl , the gap voltage U gap and the discharge current density j dis are plotted together with the respective measured quantities. Since the actual cross section area of the discharge is uncertain, the gap voltage calculated from the measurement is shown for discharge diameters of 12 1 mm ± . Comparing the simulated with the measured electrical quantities, the breakdown voltage and the discharge current are too large in this simulation, causing also a too large voltage drop during the discharge breakdown. In figure 5 + ions and the SEE by UV photons. In contrast to these two SEE processes, the SEE by metastables and helium dimers is unimportant because of the short lifetime of helium metastables and dimers in a gas mixture with 400 ppm oxygen. Most of them get lost by Penning-ionization processes before they reach the dielectrics. During the pre-phase of the discharge, the only relevant emission process of electrons from the surface is the thermal desorption, which is set to J 10 cm s des 10 2 1
= -for this example. This value corresponds to a desorption frequency of about 1.8 Hz . The actual desorption frequency is even more unknown than the SEE coefficient, because it depends strongly on the temperature of the dielectric surface and the binding energy of electrons adsorbed to the surface [6]. -in (b) and (c), the gap voltage after the discharge current pulse remains even large enough to allow a second breakdown as it is observed in the experiment. Furthermore, the agreement of the discharge current pulse and  -corresponds to a desorption frequency of about 180 Hz . This value is large in comparison to previous simulations [7], but because of its strong dependence on the surface temperature and electron binding energy [6] it is still appropriate. Actually, the simulation states only a constant flux of electrons from the surface during the discharge-off phase. This flux might be also caused by reactions of long-living radicals as O and O 3 with the surface. An estimation of the reaction probability for such a process will be made in section 5.3.

Variation of SEE, thermal desorption and gas temperature


Since the SEEs by
Besides the SEE coefficients, the gas temperature is unknown. Its influence on the simulation is shown in figure 8. With increasing gas temperature, the breakdown voltage decreases because of the larger reduced electric field strength
The discharge current and the gap voltage drop change little with gas temperature, but a clear trend is not visible.
Since the variation of T gas , J des and γ + is partially diametrical, it is possible to find an appropriate set of J des and γ + for each gas temperature. This is presented in figure 9 for gas temperatures between room temperature and 350 K . For all parameter sets, the agreement of the simulated discharge current pulse and gap voltage drop with the experimental curves is quite good for the first discharge breakdown. Generally, the larger the gas temperature, the lower the secondary electron emission coefficient necessary to adapt the simulation to the experiment.

Adapted discharge
Despite the good agreement of the first simulated discharge pulse with the experiment, there is still a large discrepancy concerning the second breakdown. Its discharge current is always overestimated by the simulation, no matter which parameter set is used. To solve this discrepancy, a lower flux of electrons from the cathode is stated after the first discharge breakdown. This is realized by a thermal desorption flux and SEE coefficients depending on the surface charge. It is reasonable that both are much larger for a negatively charged di electric where additional electrons with low binding energy are present. Despite the second breakdown becomes actually suppressed by the lower flux of electrons from the cathode after the first breakdown, a discrepancy between the simulation   and the measurement remains. The reason might be that the second measured discharge ignites at another lateral position than the first one [38], which cannot be modeled by the 1D simulation. Therefore, the following discussions focus on the first discharge breakdown, as it is done in the experiment [5].
In figure 10, the finally adapted simulation for a gas temperature of 300 K is presented. The agreement of the electrical quantities of the simulation with the measurement, as shown in (a) and (b), is very good for the first discharge pulse. For the second discharge pulse, the breakdown voltage is too large in the simulation. In figure 10(c -and γ + from 0.02 to zero. For the negative half period, the chosen values are smaller to reproduce the larger breakdown voltage and voltage drop during the discharge breakdown. The figure shows how different the flux of thermally desorpted electrons and the SEE coefficients of the two surfaces might be, despite the use of the nominally same material. The reason might be different surface temperatures caused by different effective gas flow rates in front of both dielectrics.
Finally, the calculated excitation rate of the He 3 S 3 ( ) state in figure 11(b) is compared with the measured spatio-temporally resolved emission intensity at 706 nm in (c). The typical spatio-temporal behavior of the measured emission intensity is well reproduced by the simulation. For the first discharge pulse, the cathode-directed excitation front of the glow-like discharge is well visible, in particular its maximum in front of the cathode. Likewise for the second discharge pulse, the He 3 S 3 ( ) excitation rate has its maximum in front of the anode, indicating a Townsend-like discharge. Nonetheless, some discrepancies remain, e.g. the velocity of the cathode directed excitation front is larger in the experiment.

Discharge characterization


Discharge dynamics and electron balance
The reduced electric field strength and the total ionization rate are plotted in figure 12 in comparison with the applied voltage, gap voltage, and discharge current density. The electric field increases uniformly during the pre-phase of the discharge. During the first discharge breakdown, the electric field is deformed strongly by space charges. Its maximum appears in front of the cathode, whereas it weakens towards the anode. No positive column is formed in contrast to previous simulations of barrier discharges [7,11], which emphasizes the importance of the adaption to the experiment. The second breakdown with its weaker discharge current shows only a small increase of the electric field towards the cathode in comparison to the first breakdown.
Simultaneously with the electric field, the total ionization rate in figure 12(c) increases in the pre-phase. Before the breakdown, the total ionization increases exponentially towards the anode because of the exponentially increasing electron density and the uniform electric field. During the breakdown, the maximum of the total ionization moves towards the cathode, which is the typical cathode-directed ionizing front of atmospheric pressure glow-like discharges [39]. After the breakdown, an anode  glow is hard to see because of the low drop in gap voltage. The second breakdown misses even the cathode directed ionizing front and shows only a nearly exponential increase of the total ionization rate towards the anode due to the weakly disturbed electric field by space charges. Hence, the second breakdown is an atmospheric pressure Townsend-like discharge [39].
To figure out the electron kinetics, the spatially averaged production and loss processes of electrons with the largest rates are presented in figures 13(b) and (c). Within the first microseconds after the change in gap voltage polarity, the thermal desorption at the cathodic dielectric is the only production process for electrons. During the later part of the discharge pre-phase, the breakdown, and afterglow, the dominating electron source is the Penning-ionization (p10) of oxygen molecules by helium metastables. All other ionization processes are one order of magnitude lower. Nevertheless, there are three processes with similar ionization rates which cannot be neglected. These processes are the electron impact ioniz ation (i01-02) with the background gases and the Penning ionization of oxygen with helium dimers (p17). As visible in figure 13(c), the most important loss process for electrons is the drift to the anode. The attachment processes are at least one order of magnitude lower. As well, recombination is improbable because of the finite electric field after the breakdown, which keeps the mean electron energy high. Despite different elementary processes are responsible for each ion species production, their loss processes are also dominated by the drift to the dielectrics. The recombination between negative and positive ions is unimportant for the investigated discharge.

Evolution of charged and neutral species
In figure 14, the spatially averaged densities of the charged and neutral species are plotted depending on time. The dominating charged species during the discharge is the O 2 + ion, because it is mainly produced by the predominant Penning-ionization (p10) of oxygen molecules by helium metastables. The second prevalent positive ion species is O 4 + , created by the association of O 2 + ions to oxygen molecules (cc23) in a three-particle collision with the background gas. In third place follows the O + ion, which is mainly formed by dissociative charge exchange with helium ions (cc05). This is also the reason for the low concentration of helium and helium dimer ions, which are quickly converted to oxygen ions. In total, the qualitative distribution of positive ions is in good agreement with the global model in [21].
As it is shown in figure 14(c), the most often negatively charged species is the electron, having a density one order of magnitude lower than the O 2 + ions in the first glow-like discharge, and a density two orders of magnitude lower in the second Townsend-like discharge. The density of negative ions is mostly lower than the density of electrons, which is in agreement with the global model in [21] as well. Only just after the change in gap voltage polarity and in the afterglow of the first discharge pulse, the negative ion density exceeds and equals the electron density, respectively. At these times, the lowest electric field is observed, resulting in a larger attachment rate and slower electron drift to the anode. The larger negative ion density in the pre-phase might explain why the laser photodetachment effect in the experiment was only observed during the pre-phase of the discharge [5], but the maximum of the laser photodetachment effect was measured at later times. A more detailed discussion about the negative ion kinetics and their influence on the discharge will be given in section 6.
The spatially averaged densities of the neutral species are presented in figure 14(d). The helium metastables and dimers  are only present during the discharge since they become rapidly de-excited by Penning-ionization processes with oxygen molecules (p10) and (p17). Despite the very fast conversion of helium metastables to helium dimers (nc01), the density of helium metastables still exceeds the density of helium dimers because the loss of helium metastables by Penning-ionization (p10) is even faster at an admixture of 400 ppm oxygen. In contrast to the helium species, the oxygen radicals O and O 3 as well as the molecular oxygen metastables a O 2 ( ) and b O 2 ( ) survive the discharge. They are produced in the discharge volume and recombine at the dielectric surfaces. Therefore, their density depends strongly on the used reflexion coefficients, which is discussed in the next section.

Variation of reflexion coefficients
A detailed analysis of the kinetics of the long-living species O, a O 2 ( ), b O 2 ( ), and O 3 points out that their long lifetime is the result of their slow diffusion to the dielectrics and the deexcitation there. As known, modeling of surface processes is very complicated and requires a detailed characterization of the surface. Since such a modeling is beyond the scope of this work, only a variation of wall reflexion coefficients in long-time simulations is done to estimate the density of these long-living states in a continuous discharge operation. The resulting axial density profiles of O, a O 2 ( ), b O 2 ( ), and O 3 after 20 discharge cycles (corresponding to 10 ms simulation time) for a reflexion coefficient of r = 0.99 are presented in figure 15. Because all these states are produced in the volume and mainly destroyed at the dielectric surfaces, their profiles have their maximum in the center and their minima in front of the dielectrics. For a reflexion coefficient of r = 0.99, the maximum in the center is about one order of magnitude larger than the minimum in front of the dielectrics.
To take a closer look on the dependence on the reflexion coefficient, the axial profiles for oxygen atoms are shown for different wall reflexion coefficients in figure 16. As expected, the oxygen atom density decreases with decreasing wall reflexion coefficient. The maximal oxygen atom density is 8 10 cm 12 3
× -, corresponding to a dissociation degree of about 1.6 10 3 × -. Since the density of a O 2 ( ) metastables in figure 15 is about one third of the density of oxygen atoms, only 0.05% of the oxygen molecules are in the metastables state. This low value is the reason why the electron impact ionization with oxygen metastables is not important for the total ionization rate discussed in section 5.1. In comparison with the global model in [21], the densities of oxygen radicals are little lower in our simulation, even for r = 1. This difference is probably caused by the approximately four times larger input power in the global model.
For a reflexion coefficient of r = 0.99, the oxygen atom density in front of the dielectrics is about 6 10 cm   11 3

×
-. The resulting thermal current to the dielectric is
To relate the large electron desorption flux of J des = 10 12 -cm s 2 1 (compare section 4) to the secondary electron emission (SEE) caused by recombining oxygen atoms at the surface, the respective SEE coefficient must be about 10 -4 . Relating this with the assumed reflexion coefficient of r = 0.99, about every hundredth oxygen atom recombination process must release an electron from the negatively charged surface. This might explain the large flux of electrons from the negatively charged dielectric during the discharge-off time.
However, the simulation of 20 discharge cycles gives only an upper limit for the density of long-living species, because for such long times the diffusion in the radial direction  contributes to the total particle balance, wherefore a two dimensional simulation would be necessary. Furthermore, the large amount of reactions for neutrals conversion disallows more reliable statements about the density of these long-living species. Most rates for these conversions are taken from one source [21] and are not cross-checked in the primal publications. As well, the assumption of one unitary reflexion coefficient for all long-living species is a strong simplification. Nonetheless, the most important result from this discussion remains valid: the density of long-living species is too low to have significant influence on the discharge dynamics, no matter whether the reflexion coefficient is 0.9 or 0.999.

Kinetics and influence of negative ions


Kinetics of negative ions
The spatio-temporally resolved densities of electrons, O 2 + ions, and of the negative ions O -, O 2 -, and O 3 -as well as their spatially averaged production rates are shown in figure 17. The electron density in figure 17(b) increases exponentially towards the anode during the Townsend pre-phase of the first glow-like discharge as well as during the second Townsendlike discharge. During the first discharge breakdown, the spatial distribution deviates from the exponential increase of the pre-phase. In contrast to the electron density, the O 2 + density in figure 17(c) has its maximum in front of the cathode and shows only a weak spatial dependence. This is reasonable because the O 2 + ions are mainly produced near the anode where the electron density is largest, but they drift afterwards to the cathode.
The O -density in figure 17(d) reflects in principle the electron density because O -ions are mainly produced by dissociative electron attachment (att04) and (att05) as it can be seen in (e). Although the attachment (att08) and (att09) of electrons to the metastables a O 2 ( ) and b O 2 ( ) is more effective than the attachment to O 2 (compare figure A1), the low a O 2 ( ) and b O 2 ( ) concentrations inhibit a stronger contribution of these processes. To have an effect on the O -density, the a O 2 ( ) concentration would have to be at least two orders of magnitude larger. The contributions of the dissociative attachment with ozone (att11) as well as the charge transfer from O 2
-to O (cc37) are in the same range as the attachment to the molecular oxygen metastables. Other processes, e.g. the attachment of electrons to oxygen atoms by three particle collisions with the background gas (att03), are negligible because of too low oxygen atom and metastables densities.

The O 2
-density shows a difference in comparison to the O - density. During the discharge pulses both look quite similar, but just after the change in gap voltage polarity the O 2 -density is obviously larger. The reason is the energy dependence of  the rate coefficient for the three particle collision attachment (att07) having its maximum at low electric field strengths (see figure A1). This dependence even results in a clearly larger O 2
-density in comparison to the electron density, hence, the laser photodetachment of these electrons might influence the discharge. However, no effect was measured when firing the laser in the early pre-phase [5]. The electric field is probably to low at these times to have an effect on the discharge. Although the attachment in a three particle collision (att07) becomes weaker for larger electric fields, this attachment process remains the main channel for the O 2 -formation during the discharge pulse since the involved oxygen molecule is the most prevalent oxygen species. Other processes are of minor importance because of the quite lower densities of the longliving species as O, a O 2 ( ) and O 3 . The O 3
-density in figure 17(h) is quite similar to the O - density, but about one order of magnitude lower. It is mainly produced by the association (cc33) of O -with O 2 in a three particle collision with the background gas. The charge transfer processes (cc36) and (cc39) from the other negative ions are of minor importance because of the low O 3 density. Likewise to the O 2 -formation, an attachment of electrons to ozone (att13) in a three particle collision with the background gas is considered in the modeling, but as for O -, the density of O 3 is too low in comparison to O 2 .
The most important loss process for negative ions is the drift to the anode and their destruction at the dielectrics. For the O 2 -and the O 3 -ions, detachment and charge transfer processes are about three orders of magnitude lower. Only for the Oion, the association (cc33) of O -with O 2 to O 3 -in a three particle collision plays a role, while it is the main production process of O 3 -(compare figure 17(i)). Up to now, no statement concerning the relative ratio of the negative ion species to each other is given. This is quite difficult, because the main production process for O 2 -is a three particle collision with the background gas helium, whose rate coefficient is calculated from cross sections given for such a collision with oxygen as background gas. Hence, the O 2 -density might be one order of magnitude larger or lower. Both rates given in [22] and [21] are lower, so the O 2 -density would fall below the O 3 -density as in the global model in [21] and Owould be prevalent. This is supported by the experiment in [5], where it was pointed out that O 2 -cannot be the dominant negative ion species.

Influence of negative ions
To point out the actual influence of negative ions on the simulated discharge, the discharge current and gap voltage of the adapted simulation are compared with a simulation without negative ions, and a simulation without attachment in figure 18. The latter simulation keeps the dissociation in reactions (att04), (att05), and (att08-11), but no negative ions are formed. However, the comparison in figure 18 shows nearly no difference between the manipulated and the unchanged simulation. Hence, the influence of attachment processes and negative ions on the discharge behavior is negligible for the adapted simulation when using the listed rate coefficients.
Even though the discussion turns out that negative ions have no influence on the adapted simulated discharge, it is appropriate to figure out their influence if the attachment rates would be larger. Such an investigation is presented in figure 19,  using 10 and 100 times larger attachment rates. Looking at the case for 10 times larger attachment rates in (a) and (b), the discharge current pulse is slightly delayed and the O - density is in the same range as the electron density. For 100 times larger attachment rates, the change in discharge current and gap voltage is obvious. The discharge ignites at a larger breakdown voltage and the discharge current pulse is wider. This is caused by the decrease in electron density, which slows down the electron impact excitation and the following Penning-ionization. For this case, the O -density is even about ten times larger than the electron density. Since the rate coefficients for ion-ion-recombination are larger than the rate coefficients for the recombination of positive ions with electrons, one would assume a stronger contribution of ionion-recombination on the discharge dynamics. For the 100 times larger attachment, the ion-ion-recombination processes actually dominate the ones with electrons, but their rates are still two orders of magnitude lower than the loss of ions by the drift to the dielectrics.

Conclusions
This work developed successfully a 1D fluid simulation for diffuse barrier discharges in helium with small admixtures of oxygen. The simulated discharge was adapted to the experimentally measured gap voltage and discharge current and was able to reproduce these curves as well as the spatio-temporally resolved optical emission very well. The gas temperature and secondary electron emission coefficients used for the adaption are reasonable, but a comparably large flux of thermally desorpted electrons from the negatively charged dielectric is necessary to reproduce the low ignition voltages and voltage drops during the discharge. The adapted simulation shows that the first discharge breakdown is a glow-like discharge, whereas the second is Townsend-like. This is in good agreement with the measured optical emission as well, but the discharge current of the second discharge is usually too large in the simulation in comparison to the experiment. Probably, the two discharge breakdowns take place at different lateral positions in the experiment, which cannot be reproduced by the one-dimensional simulation.
The analysis of the discharge dynamics shows that the Penning-ionization of oxygen molecules by helium metastables plays the key role for the charged particle production, whereas the loss of charged particles is dominated by the drift to the dielectrics. Recombination and electron attachment are of minor importance for the discharge dynamics. This is related to a low negative ion density, which is about one order of magnitude lower than the electron density during the discharge pulse and the late pre-phase. The dominant negative ion species during this time is the O -ion, which is in agreement with the laser pulse energy variation of the laser photodetachment experiment. It is mainly formed by dissociative electron attachment to oxygen molecules. Only during the change in gap voltage polarity, the electric field is low enough to enable an effective attachment of electrons to the oxygen molecules via three particle collisions. For these times, the O 2 -ion is the most abundant negative ion species and its density even exceeds the electron density. However, the exper imentally observed laser photodetachment effect was not observed at these times. The maximum of the laser photodetachment effect was measured in the late pre-phase, when the O -ion is dominant, which is in agreement with the results obtained by the laser wavelength variation.
The spatial distribution of negative ions follows the spatial distribution of the electron density, which increases exponentially towards the anode during the pre-phase of the discharge and levels during the glow-like discharge breakdown. During the Townsend-like second discharge breakdown, the negative ion density increases exponentially towards the anode as in the pre-phase of the first breakdown. The contribution of long-living species as oxygen atoms, oxygen metastables or ozone on the negative ion formation is negligible because of their low density in comparison to the ground state oxygen molecule.
Looking at the influence of negative ions on the discharge, the included attachment processes are too slow to have an effect on the discharge breakdown. Such an effect occurs when using 100 times larger attachment rates, which is a placeholder for missing three-particle attachment processes or larger oxygen admixtures. For this larger attachment, the discharge ignites later because of the missing electrons and the corresponding lower effective ionization. The lower mobility of negative ions in comparison to electrons is unimportant for these relatively long discharge pulses. Furthermore, even for these relatively large negative ion densities, the ion-ion recombination rate is still quite lower than the loss of charged particles by their drift to the dielectrics.
Although the simulation shows that negative ions are unimportant for the adapted discharge when using the listed rate coefficients, the laser photodetachment experiment showed at least a small effect on the discharge when detaching the electrons from the negative ions. The simulation might underestimate the negative ion densities because of missing volume attachment processes, their unknown dependence on the reduced electric field strength or a negative ion formation at the surfaces. Therefore, the next step should be an inclusion of the laser photodetachment in the simulation and a detailed comparison with the laser photodetachment experiment.
( ) → + + --T 9.72 10 exp 0.591 cm s
Electron impact ionization (i01) e He He 2e

→ ( )
a Assumed rate coefficient from three particle collision with oxygen molecules. b Taken same value as for (nc22).
Note: T gas in K, T e in eV.

