Abstract
This paper presents experimental results on the spatio-temporal development and breakdown statistics of filamentary microdischarges (MD) in O 2 /N 2 gas mixtures at atmospheric pressure. The influence of the O 2 admixture was studied for 0.1-20 vol% O 2 in N 2 . Electrical measurements were recorded, as were simultaneous streak and iCCD images of MDs in a pulsed-driven barrier discharge of 1 mm gap. The O 2 /N 2 percentage was found to have a significant impact on the electrical characteristics, the temporal development of the MDs and its breakdown statistics, e.g. an increase in the temporal jitter of breakdown occurrence. A higher O 2 concentration leads to a delay in ignition time, a shorter discharge duration, an increasing discharge radius, higher discharge current maxima, rising breakdown field strength values over the gap and larger velocities of the cathode directed streamers. These changes can be explained by the electronegativity and effective collisional quenching of O 2 , in combination with the steep rise of the voltage pulse.

Introduction
The elementary processes which control the evolution and the type of breakdown phenomena are determined by the properties of the gas mixture, the gas pressure and the discharge configuration [1]. This paper focuses on pulsed driven dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) at atmospheric pressure in various binary gas mixtures of N 2 and O 2 . The highly reactive species generated in DBDs have various industrial applications, including exhaust treatment and ozone generation [2][3][4]. Recent studies on the influence of the oxygen content on the development of single microdischarges mainly focused on sinusoidal-driven DBDs, e.g. [5,6]. A significant reduction in the spatial jitter of MDs in single filament arrangements was reported for sinusoidal [7] as well as pulsed [8] operation, this stabilization enabled their study with high spatio-temporal resolution. Pulsed driven DBDs show great potential in the above-mentioned applications, as they can produce a higher number of radicals [9][10][11]. However, the generation of active species is determined by the properties of the discharge, e.g. the plasma parameters and thus the discharge physics [12][13][14][15]. Since oxygen is electronegative, it can significantly influence the breakdown and the plasma properties, e.g. due to the generation of negative ions (electron attachment and detachment) and collisional quenching. Therefore, this paper is dedicated to a systematic study of the influence of the O 2 content on the breakdown and the spatio-temporal development of pulsed-driven MDs. Fast electrical, iCCD and streak measurements of MDs in a single filament arrangement in various binary O 2 /N 2 gas mixtures are performed. In addition to the development of single MDs their distribution regarding MD inception time and MD current amplitude are analysed in detail.

mm
Figure 1. Discharge cell with alumina covered electrodes and spatial fixed filament in the gap of 1 mm. a gas cell (volume ≈2.5 cm 3 ) including alumina (Al 2 O 3 with ε r ≈ 9) covered metal electrodes. The gas cell was made of plexiglas with gas inlet from the top and outlet at the bottom (the top corresponds to left in figure 1). Two lateral quartz glass windows allowed the observation of the MD from the UV to the near infrared spectral range. To ensure that subsequent MDs are located in the same position, half sphere electrodes covered with alumina were used in a similar fashion to [8]. The dielectric barrier was about 0.5 mm thick at each side and the gap of the electrodes was 1 mm. The barrier thickness was verified by x-ray measurements. The experimental set-up is shown in figure 2. The O 2 /N 2 gas mixture at atmospheric pressure with a total flow of 100 sccm was flushed through the cell. The gas flow was adjusted by mass flow controllers (MFCs) (MKS 179B with control unit MKS 647B) connected to gas cylinders (gas purity of 99.999%). The O 2 content in the gas mixture was varied from 0.1 to 20 vol% O 2 in N 2 .
The discharge was driven by unipolar square wave pulses of 10 kV amplitude at a repetition rate of 10 kHz. The duty cycle was chosen to 10%, i.e. the pulse width was 10 µs and the pause is 90 µs, see figure 3(a). The voltage rise of the pulse was approximately 250 V ns -1 specified by the pulse generator (DEI, PVX-4110). The pulse generator was supplied by a high-voltage power supply (FUG, HCN 1400-12500) and controlled by a digital delay generator (DG) (SI, DG645). Electrical measurements were performed with fast probes and recorded with a 5 GS s -1 (bandwidth 500 MHz) digital sampling oscilloscope (DPO) (Tektronix, TDS 7054). Voltage (Tektronix, P6015A) and current probes (Tektronix, CT-1) have rise times (10% to 90%) less than 4.67 ns and 0.35 ns, respectively.
The MDs were observed simultaneously by a fast iCCD camera (Andor, iStar DH734-18U-A3) and a streak camera system (Hamamatsu, C5680-21C), which were connected to a far-field microscope (Questar, QM100), as shown in figure 2. The far-field microscope magnifies the discharge image by a factor of four, which significantly increases the spatial resolution to 10 µm. The iCCD enables the recording of 2D images of single MDs and their propagation on the electrode surfaces. In addition to the single shots, the camera allows the accumulation of consecutive MDs on the CCD device. The streak camera images yield the spatio-temporal MD development along the discharge axis during the rising and falling slopes of the voltage pulse, with a high temporal and spatial resolution of 50 ps and 10 µm, respectively. The cameras are sensitive in the UV and the visible spectral range, and the images presented in this paper were recorded with spectral integration.

Results and discussion
The results of the electrical measurements are presented in figure 3, where (a) displays exemplarily the voltage and current development for a complete pulse of 10 kV with a duty cycle D of 10% (t pulse = 10 µs, t pause = 90 µs). The pulsed operation leads to one single MD at the rising and one at the falling slope, respectively [8,16]. This paper only focuses on MDs at the rising slope. Figure 3(b) illustrates the detailed structure of the applied voltage V and current within the rising slope in a 200 ns time window. The voltage rise time to reach 10 kV is about 50 ns. The measured current signal I tot consists of the displacement current I dis and the discharge current I MD . The displacement current was measured when the corresponding voltage was applied and the MD did not ignite immediately. Because of the steep voltage rise the displacement current is of the same order of magnitude as the discharge current. It is therefore essential to properly subtract I dis from I tot . To calculate the discharge current flowing through the gap from the measured difference I tot -I dis , I MD has to be scaled with the  factor dependent on the capacitances of the dielectric barriers C b and of the total DBD arrangement C tot [17,18], as shown in equation (1). The result of the analysis is presented in figure 4(a) for two instances of the gas mixtures under consideration here. The time integration over one discharge current pulse then allows determination of the transferred charge Q MD for a single MD using the capacitances (C tot = 0.16 pF and C b = 0.34 pF) calculated in [8,19].
Obviously a higher amount of O 2 leads to a faster discharge decay and therefore a lower amount of charge Q MD transferred per MD through the gap. The drop in Q MD and I MD fullwidth at half-maximum (FWHM) with increasing O 2 content is plotted in figure 4(b). The same dependence was observed for sinusoidal driven MDs and related to the electron attachment on O 2 [6]. However, as recently presented in [8], compared with sinusoidal driven DBDs [20], the transferred charge and power for a single MD can be controlled by the voltage amplitude in pulsed operation. A significant increase in the jitter of MDs with increasing O 2 content was observed. This phenomenon was investigated in more detail, as described below. By means of the FastFrame TM mode of the DPO the current and voltage slopes of 1250 single MDs were recorded in a time window of 400 ns for each O 2 /N 2 ratio. The distributions of inception time and MD current maximum I max were analysed, as shown in figure 5, where (a) shows the temporal distribution of I max (one symbol corresponds to one MD). Counting the number of MD occurrences for every time t in (a) between the dashed lines gave the temporal distribution of MD inception-i.e. the number of MD ignitions over time (figure 5(b)). Repeating the same procedure with I max instead of time, i.e. counting the number of MDs for every I max value in (a), yielded the spread of MD current maxima as shown in figure 5(c).
For 0.1 to 3 vol% O 2 the temporal distribution of the MD ignition point of time is Gaussian. However, the mean breakdown occurrence (the centre of Gaussian fits in figure 5(b)) is delayed by some ns, accompanied by a broadening of the Gaussian distribution from 0.6 to 2.0 ns (FWHM). Due to the steep voltage rise this short delay leads to a higher voltage across the gap when the breakdown occurs. Consequently, the mean MD current maxima rises from 70 to 100 mA, as shown in figure 5(c). The distribution of I max is also Gaussian for O 2 concentrations between 0.1 vol% and 3 vol%, with a slight increase in FWHM from 5 mA to 12 mA, respectively.
For O 2 concentrations between 6 and 20 vol% a more erratic behaviour was registered. The distributions of the temporal inception points as well as the current maxima were broadening with O 2 concentration. The FWHM of the inception points increased to approximately 25 ns; even about 250 ns after the maximum of voltage a breakdown of MD could be detected (figure 5(a)). The above-mentioned direct connection between MD current maxima and voltage slope is also evident from figure 5(a). The distribution of current maxima reaches values between 80 and 325 mA (figure 5(c)). These results suggest that the breakdown voltage over the gap rises with O 2 concentration. Up to 3 vol% O 2 in N 2 the breakdown threshold for the gap voltage is certainly reached within the pulse slope. This is not the case for O 2 concentrations from 6 to 20 vol%, as here the voltage threshold for breakdown is not surely exceeded. Hence the breakdown takes place with a statistical delay (see figure 5(b)).
As a consequence the increase in the voltage across the discharge gap by the breakdown delay is a higher value of the reduced electric field strength E/n at the breakdown point of time t b :
The reduced breakdown field strength in the gap can be calculated knowing the voltage over the gap at ignition V b (when MD current rises) using the capacitances of the DBD arrangement taken from [8,19], the discharge gap d g and an estimation of the gas density n (ideal gas law for p = 1013 hPa and T = 298 K):
where V | t=t b is the applied voltage at t b . These voltage values could be slightly biased by the electrical potential caused by   the amount of the deposited surface charge from the previous MD, which is unknown in this DBD arrangement (measured for plane dielectric barriers in [21]). With higher O 2 content an increase in the mean value, as well as the scattering range of V b and consequently of (E/n) b was observed, see figure 6. Starting from 6 vol% O 2 there are a minimum and a maximum for (E/n) b (160 Td = 39 kV cm -1 and 210 Td = 51 kV cm -1 for n = 2.45 × 10 25 m -3 , respectively). The minimum value corresponds to the smallest reduced field strength value where the breakdown is possible but not generally appearing. The highest (E/n) b value is restricted to the applied voltage maximum, i.e. some discharges occur on the plateau of the HV pulse. This also provides an explanation for the rise in the discharge current maximum for increasing O 2 /N 2 ratio which follows the voltage slope (figure 5(a)). Since the range of voltage increases, and since the discharge current maximum is determined by the voltage value, the scatter of discharge current amplitudes increases. In addition, the reduced effective ionization coefficient ᾱ/n = (αη)/n as a function of the reduced electric field strength is higher for O 2 than for N 2 , for (E/n) b > 100 Td [22]. This could also explain the higher discharge current maxima with increasing O 2 content as measured by Kozlov et al [6] for sinusoidal DBDs up to 10 vol% O 2 in N 2 and by Ono et al [23] for a positive pulsed corona discharge up to 1 vol% O 2 in N 2 . However, for pulsed driven DBDs the breakdown delay has a stronger impact on the discharge current maxima due to the steep voltage slope (e.g. 4 ns delay in the slope corresponds to ≈1 kV increase in applied voltage).
The breakdown delay could be explained as follows: since with increasing O 2 concentration the background ionization level is reduced [24], a higher electric field strength in the gap is needed to reach the breakdown condition. Because of the fast voltage rise, the accumulation of positive space charges (ionization in so-called pre-phase [25]) has only tens of ns to generate an electric field near the breakdown field strength in front of the anode, which is needed to start the cathodedirected ionization front (positive streamer). Thus, the electron trapping by O 2 and O ( i.e. the generation of negative ions due to electron attachment) could cause the delay. Furthermore, the very effective quenching of metastable states N 2 (A 3 + u ) by O 2 and O will lead to the reduction of the metastable state density [26] and thus also reduce the pre-ionization level. Metastables are known to decrease the breakdown field due to either Penning ionization in the volume, or collisions with the dielectric surface (i.e. emission of electrons deposited on the dielectric) as additional processes that supply free electrons [27][28][29]. Šimek et al [30] also measured a breakdown delay in air compared with N 2 for MDs at the positive half-wave of a sinusoidal driven coplanar barrier discharge (for ac frequencies of 6 and 10 kHz).
Figure 7 shows exemplary iCCD images of the investigated MDs. All pictures are in pseudo-colour, i.e. red indicates the highest and black the lowest intensity. The labels anode and cathode are related to the potential difference established between the electrodes. In case of a positive unipolar pulse the powered electrode is the anode during the rising slope and the cathode during the falling slope, as described in [8,16]. The top row of figure 7 shows the single and accumulated iCCD images of MDs in the rising slope for 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 ; the bottom row for 20 vol% O 2 in N 2 . The MDs consist of a constricted channel in the volume and branching discharge channels on the dielectric surface, which are well described in the literature [3,7,31]. The MD branches are more pronounced at the anode, but surface discharge channels were observed at both electrodes. The surface discharge channels on the anode side look similar for different O 2 /N 2 mixtures but are less extensive for higher O 2 concentrations. The axial discharge luminosity distribution is similar to to the structure of a glow discharge: a zone of lower emission in front of the cathode (the so-called dark space in analogy with the glow discharge [8,32,33]), and towards the anode a zone with higher emission was detected.
The results of the iCCD measurements may also contribute to the previous discussion of the temporal breakdown jitter, since according to Akishev et al [34] the temporal jitter for a sinusoidal driven multifilament plate to plate DBD in air is caused by the different amounts of deposited surface charge. With rising O 2 content the spread of surface discharges on the anode decreases, see figure 7. This could indicate that both the area in which charges were attached on the surface and the total amount of deposited charge are reduced (compare the reduction of transferred charge in figure 4(b)), which may have and could contribute to the temporal jitter.
Moreover, the emission diameter of the MD channel in the middle of the gap was estimated from several single MDs recorded with the iCCD to exclude the effect of a spatial jitter (compare the left and right columns in figure 7). Therefore, a 150 µm sector along the axis of the MD channel was averaged and normalized. The resulting profiles were fitted with a pseudo-Voigt profile to get a proper value for the FWHM of the diameter d MD . The results are shown in figure 8. There is an increase in the MD diameter with rising O 2 content (see figure 8). The diameter is about 75 µm for 0.1 vol% and increases to about 120 µm for 20 vol% O 2 in N 2 . An overestimation due to a small spatial jitter of the MDs can be excluded, as can be seen from iCCD pictures of single MDs shown in figure 7. Although the diameter estimated from the iCCD images is essentially not the diameter of the cathode directed streamer, but of the emission of the transient plasma (see figure 9) it can be assumed that the emission takes place in the ionized channel created by the streamer propagation through the gap. Under this assumption the estimated diameter values confirm other experiments on the diameter of positive streamers in O 2 /N 2 mixtures performed in air and N 2 by Briels et al and Nijdam et al [35][36][37]. The discharge conditions with a pin to plan geometry and larger gap deviate from ours but the streamer behaves similarly. The minimal streamer diameters for atmospheric pressure estimated in these experiments [35][36][37] are in all cases increasing with rising O 2 concentration. A minimum streamer diameter of about 70 µm in N 2 increasing in air up to 120 µm was measured by Nijdam et al [36], correcting the data presented by Briels et al [35] (120 µm for N 2 and 200 µm for air). The diameters shown in [37] are 90 µm for N 2 and 100 µm for 0.01 vol% O 2 in N 2 . For air at atmospheric pressure, van Veldhuizen et al [38] reported a streamer diameter of 160 µm. These data are in accordance with our measurements. However, for a coplanar barrier discharge in N 2 at atmospheric pressure, Šimek et al measured values of about 50 µm using a different determination method [39].
According to Eliasson et al [22] the discharge diameter is proportional to the reciprocal of the derivation of the effective ionization coefficient (for n = const) with respect to the reduced electric field strength at breakdown
In our measurements the enlargement of the diameter with rising O 2 concentration is accompanied by an increase in the reduced electric field strength at breakdown (see figure 6). This corresponds to the diameter relation reported by Eliasson. Since for (E/n) b values above approximately 175 Td, the slope of ᾱ/n is steeper for N 2 than for O 2 (see [22], p 1277, figure 3).
is higher for O 2 than for N 2 in this range of the reduced electric field strength at breakdown. Therefore, the diameter rises with increasing O 2 content (for (E/n) b > 175 Td). Thus the simulations of Eliasson et al [22] are confirmed for the pulsed-driven DBDs used in our experiments.
Streak camera measurements provide further insight into the MD structure and development. Exemplary streak images of MD progress in the rising slope for 0.1 and 20 vol% O 2 in N 2 are displayed in figure 9. These pictures were taken under the same conditions as the iCCD images at the centre along the  axis of the discharge channel and visualize its spatio-temporal development in a space over time diagram with discharge luminosity in pseudo-colours.
The discharge process starts with the accumulation of positive space charges in the pre-breakdown phase [25] (for sinusoidal DBDs see [40,41]) and the subsequent propagation of a cathode directed ionizing front (positive streamer). After the streamer transit, a zone of high luminosity with local maximum in the bulk towards the anode is obtained. At this stage, the MD is similar to a short lasting transient glow discharge [25,[41][42][43]. Surface discharges in their temporal development can also be seen on the electrodes. Due to the high sensitivity of the streak camera system it is also possible to follow a single MD event without accumulation (shown in [8]). Because of the effective collisional quenching of the excited N 2 states (which are responsible for the majority of the emission, mainly N 2 (C 3 u )) by O 2 the signal intensity decreases drastically. Thus, for O 2 concentrations above 5 vol% it is up to now inaccurate to obtain the streamer velocities out of a single shot and about 1000 single MDs need to be accumulated. The huge temporal jitter of the MD occurrence for larger O 2 contents (see figure 5) is corrected by means of the jitter correction procedure of the streak camera software [44].
The duration of the discharge emission also varies with the O 2 content as can be seen qualitatively in figure 9. For a detailed analysis the streak images were spatially integrated over the discharge gap. The FWHM of the emission development and the decay time τ corresponding to the exponential drop after the maximum (proportional to e t τ ) were plotted in figure 10 in dependence on the O 2 content. It is apparent that the duration decreases with rising O 2 content. The collisional quenching of the excited N 2 states (especially N 2 (C 3 u )) by O 2 and O is responsible for this behaviour [6,7]. The dependence of discharge duration on O 2 concentration is in good agreement with the results of the electrical measurements (see figure 4(b)), and with the behaviour of sinusoidal driven DBDs investigated in [6].
The streamer propagation velocities were extracted from the streak camera measurements at several positions in the discharge gap and plotted semi-logarithmically as a function of the O 2 content in figure 11. The propagation velocity increases exponentially towards the cathode reaching an order of magnitude 10 6 m s -1 close to it. The same behaviour was measured by Wagner et al [45] for sinusoidal driven DBDs. Wagner et al also stated that the O 2 /N 2 ratio did not influence the propagation velocity. In this study, a significant increase in the velocity with rising O 2 concentration was observed, within the limits of experimental accuracy. This rise is due to the higher breakdown voltage across the gap, which resulted in an increase in the reduced electrical field strength at discharge inception as mentioned before. Ono et al [23] also found a higher streamer velocity with increasing O 2 concentration for pulsed positive corona discharges at atmospheric pressure.
Naidis [46] stated that both the propagation velocity and the discharge diameter increase with the electric field strength in the streamer head. This likewise indicates a higher electric field strength in the streamer of pulsed DBDs for higher O 2 concentrations, because the MD diameter increases with rising O 2 /N 2 ratio, as do the streamer velocities (in agreement with the results presented in figures 8 and 11, respectively). According to Wormeester et al [47] the propagation velocity increases with higher O 2 content due to the more effective photo-ionization of oxygen.
As an outlook, further research will need to include investigations on the variation of the duty cycle and the repetition frequency, especially concerning the effects of metastable N 2 on the breakdown process. Working with steeper high-voltage pulses and higher voltage amplitudes may confirm claims about discharge inception delay and its influence on MD properties. Simulations are required to obtain further insights into the role of electron attachment/detachment processes and photo-ionization. The results presented here provide the necessary input and verification data for such an approach.

Summary
Experimental results on the spatio-temporal development and breakdown statistics of filamentary microdischarges in binary oxygen-nitrogen mixtures at atmospheric pressure are presented. The influence of the oxygen content is studied in gas mixtures of 0.1 to 20 vol% O 2 in N 2 by means of precise fast electrical and optical measurements.
There is a significant impact on the essential properties of pulsed microdischarges dependent on the O 2 /N 2 ratio:
(1) The MD current maxima increase with rising O 2 /N 2 ratio.
(2) Under our conditions an O 2 concentration above 5 vol% leads to a breakdown delay which increases the reduced electrical field strength at ignition. (3) The MD current, the emission durations and the transferred charges all decrease with rising O 2 /N 2 ratio. (4) The MD emission diameters increase with the O 2 /N 2 ratio. (5) The streamer propagation velocities rise with the O 2 /N 2 ratio.
Because of the steep voltage rise in pulsed operation even a short breakdown delay has a strong influence on the reduced electric field strength in the gap. In other words, an increase in the amount of electronegative O 2 -which delays the breakdown inception-has a big impact on the discharge physics, apart from the influence of the effective collisional quenching of excited N 2 states by O 2 . Therefore, the results obtained in this study can be explained by the properties of oxygen (e.g. electron trapping and collisional quenching which reduce the background ionization before breakdown), in combination with the rapid voltage increase during the pulse slope.

