Abstract
This work is the experimental part of a comprehensive study that aims to understand the influence of negative ions on the development of atmospheric pressure barrier discharges in electronegative systems. The investigations will be complemented by a 1D numerical fluid simulation. Laser photodetachment experiments were performed in a glow-like barrier discharge operated in helium with admixtures of oxygen up to 1 vol.% at a gas pressure of 500 mbar. The discharge gap between the glass-coated electrodes was 3 mm. The discharge properties were characterized by electrical measurements and optical emission spectroscopy. Laser photodetachment of O -, O 2 -, and O 3 -was studied using the fundamental and second harmonic wavelength of a Nd-YAG laser. The laser photodetachment of negative ions influences the breakdown characteristics when the laser is fired during the prephase of the discharge only. The breakdown voltage is reduced, which indicates an enhanced pre-ionization initiated by the detached electrons. Systematic variations in the laser pulse in time, the axial laser beam position, the laser pulse energy, and the laser wavelength provided detailed knowledge on this process. The investigation underlines the importance of the discharge prephase in general and aims to differentiate between the negative ion species O -, O 2 -, and O 3 -.

Introduction
Atmospheric pressure barrier discharges (BDs) have a high technological potential [1][2][3][4]. In particular, in biomedicine, a crucial role is assigned to BDs operating in oxygenated systems as an effective source of radicals. Admixing oxygen (O 2 ) to the buffer gas helium (He) enables a compromise between chemical reactivity and discharge stability. The operation of the He/O 2 discharge is more efficient due to lower power consumptions, and the gas temperature is maintained close to room temperature [5]. The latter is advantageous for the treatment of temperature-sensitive biological samples [6].
The He BD typically operates in the diffuse glow mode [7][8][9][10][11]. Since oxygen is strongly electronegative, the formation of negative ions may significantly change the discharge properties. Well known from the low pressure discharges in electronegative systems, electron attachment reactions have a large influence on the effective ionization kinetics [12][13][14]. The electron density is reduced due to the formation of negative ions. The latter have a much larger mass and, correspondingly, less mobility than electrons. Thus, negative ions do not contribute to the gas ionization but enhance the ion-ion recombination that retards the ionization kinetics twice. This can further lead to attachment-induced instabilities and discharge mode transitions [15][16][17].
Unlike the comprehensive studies on negative ion dynamics in low pressure discharges, there is still a lag of experimental efforts in the field of atmospheric pressure discharges. In particular, the small discharge dimensions down to the submillimeter scale are a great challenge for plasma diagnostics.
Even though numerical simulations often consider negative ions as one species in the charged particle balance [18][19][20][21], their effect on the discharge development has not been emphasized clearly.
Nevertheless, a specific prediction can be deduced. The reaction rates for electron attachment and electron impact ionization depend on the reduced electric field strength. Since the latter changes significantly during the operating cycle of the barrier discharge [22][23][24], the importance of the negative ion formation should differ for the discharge prephase, breakdown, and postphase.
The presented work analyzes the importance of negative ions in diffuse He/O 2 barrier discharges taking into account conclusions from the laser photodetachment experiment. It is the first part in a trilogy of publications and will be complemented by: (II) a 1D numerical fluid simulation of the He/O 2 barrier discharge and (III) the comparison between the experimental results and the simulated laser photodetachment of negative ions.
The outline of the article is as follows. Section 2 describes the setup and the diagnostic techniques. The He/O 2 barrier discharge is characterized in section 3. Finally, section 4 presents the laser photodetachment experiment and discusses the influence of negative ions on the discharge development.

Experimental setup and methodology


Discharge cell
Figure 1 illustrates the concentric discharge cell configuration. The plane-parallel electrodes are covered with float glass (thickness of 0.7 mm, dielectric constant of 7.6). Gap spacers made of polyetheretherketon define the discharge gap width of 3 mm. Moreover, the diameter of both the high-voltage-driven electrode made of copper and the grounded aluminum block is 12 mm. Thus, the discharge area overlaps largely with the laser beam (horizontal extent of about 10 mm), which is used for the laser photodetachment experiment. Four orifices at the discharge cell enable the direct gas supply, the investigation of the optical emission coming from the discharge volume, and the laser guidance.

Vacuum system and gas supply
The discharge cell is placed inside a vacuum chamber made of stainless steel, which is evacuated to a base pressure below 10 mbar 5 before the experiment starts. Two mass flow controllers set the gas flow rate of He and O 2 (respective purity 99.999% >
). In this way, well-defined He/O 2 mixtures were realized with a maximum O 2 concentration of 1 vol.%. The gas pressure of 500 mbar was kept constant in the flowing regime (300 sccm) by the combination of a diaphragm pressure gauge (MKS), a butterfly valve (MKS), and a process pump (TRIVAC D25BCSPFPE). at the grounded electrode. The electrical signals were recorded by a digital oscilloscope (LeCroy 9304AM) with a bandwidth of 200 MHz. Figure 3 illustrates the electrical equivalent circuit that was used for the calculation of the discharge current I t dis ( ) and the gap voltage U t gap ( ) based on the model given in [29,30]:

Electrical measurements
The gas gap is represented by the time-dependent resistance R t gap ( ) and the capacitance C gap in parallel, and the two di electric plates constitute the capacitance C die . Both C gap as well as C die were calculated with the electrode area defining the lateral discharge extent. C tot corresponds to the total discharge cell capacitance that was derived from the flat slope of the
is the parallel capacitance beyond the electrode extent.

Optical emission spectroscopy
The optical emission coming from the discharge volume was measured by means of a vertically movable lens (focal length  of 150 mm), a monochromator (Acton Research Corporation, SpectraPro, focal length of 500 mm), and a photomultiplier tube (Hamamatsu R928). The lens depicted an image of the discharge emission of the inverse original size onto a horizontal slit mounted at the entrance of the monochromator.
The discharge gap was scanned by moving the lens in steps of 0.1 mm, and the slit width was 0.2 mm. The spectral resolution of 1 nm was achieved by the fixed 1200 mm 1 grating, and the adjustable width of the vertical slits just in front and behind the monochromator. The corresponding electrical signal was recorded by the LeCroy 9304AM with a temporal resolution of 0.2 μs and was synchronized with the phase of the feeding voltage.

Laser photodetachment
The photodetachment experiment was performed using the fundamental wavelength 1064 nm lsr λ = and the second harmonic wavelength 532 nm lsr λ = of a Nd:YAG laser (Quanta Ray GCR 130, 10 Hz repetition rate, 170 mJ maximum energy, 10 ns pulse duration). A cylindrical lens (focal length of -300 mm) focused the laser beam only vertically down to 0.25 mm at the focal point just in front of the discharge cell, see figure 2. The focal point was shifted along the optical axis in order to adjust the vertical extent of the divergent laser beam within the center of the discharge cell. As depicted in figure 4, the vertical extent of the laser beam was set to approximately 1 mm as a compromise between: (i) illuminating a large part of the discharge volume and (ii) avoiding the laser interaction with the charged glass barriers.
A power meter detected the laser pulse energy E lsr just behind the vacuum chamber. The maximum pulse energy inside the discharge volume was about E 532 nm 70 mJ lsr ( ) = and E 1064 nm 110 mJ lsr ( ) = , respectively. Moreover, the laser pulse was shifted along the phase of the feeding voltage by means of a pulse delay generator (SMV PDG 204). The measured electrical and optical signals were averaged over 500 laser pulses of 10 Hz frequency. Each time, at least two consecutive discharge cycles of 2 kHz frequency were recorded in order to analyze the change in the characteristics of the laseraffected discharge compared to the unaffected discharge. of excited He is depicted. Note that the periodic change from anode to cathode and vice versa is defined by the zero crossing of the gap voltage and is marked by a white dashed line.

Characterization of
As seen in figure 5(a), the discharge current of the pure He discharge peaks at 0.2 mA with a pulse duration of about 30 s µ . The transported charge is large enough to cause a significant drop in the gap voltage. Moreover, the He emission arises at the anode simultaneously with the discharge current onset and reaches its maximum near the cathode at the moment of maximum current. The excited S He 3 3  ( ) state is mainly populated by direct electron-impact excitation from the He ground state:
Due to the high excitation energy of 22.7 eV , the He emission indicates an ionizing front that propagates toward the cathode and ends in the cathode fall region [22]. This is typical for the glow-like barrier discharge in He. However, in previous studies using a smaller gas gap of 1 mm instead of 3 mm, the ionizing front failed to appear, and the Townsend mode of the barrier discharge was observed [10,11]. Figure 5(b) characterizes the discharge in He with a 400 ppm O 2 admixture. In contrast to the discharge in pure He, now, two breakdowns per half-period are observed at otherwise constant operating conditions. The first discharge breakdown reveals the same characteristics as the single glow-like breakdown in pure He. However, the breakdown voltage is slightly reduced in the presence of oxygen, which indicates an enhanced pre-ionization. Due to the significantly lower ionization energy
In particular, the Penning process dominates the effective ionization rate since the excitation of metastable He m states, including the atomic states S He 2 1  ( ) and S He 2 3  ( ), and the excimer a He 2 3 u ( ) Σ + , is much more efficient than the direct ionization of He [18,21,31].
As a result of the slightly lower ignition voltage and the shorter effective lifetime of the He metastable states according to reaction (6), the first breakdown of the He/O 2 discharge is of shorter duration than the breakdown of the pure He discharge. As well, the amount of transported charge is less indicated by the smaller time integral over the discharge current pulse. In turn, the less transported charge causes a smaller drop in the gap voltage too. Afterwards, the gap voltage rises and, again, the ignition condition is reached for a subsequent discharge breakdown within the same half-period. This behavior was already observed for the He/O 2 barrier discharge in a 1 mm gas gap: multiple Townsend-like current pulses occurred for raised O 2 concentrations [32].
The second breakdown differs significantly from the first glow-like breakdown. In detail, the amplitude of the discharge current is one order of magnitude smaller, the pulse duration is twice as long, and the gap voltage keeps nearly constant during the second breakdown. Most notable is the maximum He emission in front of the anode revealing the Townsend mode of the barrier discharge. This discharge mode is favored by the slight increase in the feeding voltage and by an enhanced secondary electron emission. Most likely, positive ions are produced by Penning ionization during the afterglow of the first breakdown and, then, reinforce the secondary electron emission during the prephase of the second breakdown.
In general, with an increasing admixture of O 2 to He, the discharge becomes unstable, which manifests as a temporal jitter in the onset of discharge ignition. The latter entails a differ ential discharge development when comparing subsequent operating cycles, and it explains the broader signal of the averaged He emission in figure 5(b). Discharge instabilities were already observed in low pressure discharges operating in electronegative systems [16]. An imbalance between the electron attachment rate and the ionization kinetics is assumed to give rise to fluctuations in the electron density. The next section aims to answer whether the presence of negative ions also reveals a remarkable influence on the properties of the He/O 2 barrier discharge at elevated pressures.

Laser photodetachment experiment
The experiment analyzes the change in the electric discharge characteristics caused by laser photodetachment of negative ions X -:
Therefore, the discharge current as well as the gap voltage for the unaffected discharge are compared with the laser-affected discharge, both recorded in subsequent operating cycles. On the one hand, this method does not demand additional diagnostic techniques for the measurement of detached electrons, which is impracticable at the small discharge dimensions and at elevated pressures as well. On the other hand, a change in the breakdown characteristics due to laser photodetachment allows conclusions on the importance of detached electrons, and contrary to negative ions, for the discharge physics, in general.

Control measurements
Control measurements were required to exclude any undesirable laser-induced effects on the discharge apart from the laser photodetachment of negative ions, e.g., laser photons interacting with the buffer gas He or laser photodesorption of surface-bound electrons. In figure 6, the gap voltage U t gap ( ) and the discharge current I t dis ( ) are plotted by dashed lines for the laser-affected discharge in (a) pure He and (b) He with a 600 ppm nitrogen admixture. Molecular nitrogen has roughly similar ionization and dissociation energies as molecular oxygen, but oxygen solely is electronegative. Moreover, the corresponding electrical quantities of the unaffected discharge are gray colored. Exemplarily, the laser was fired during the prephase of the discharge (top) and during the discharge breakdown (bottom), which is marked by arrows. The laser at its passed the discharge volume through the center of the gas gap.
In both figures 6(a) and (b), the plotted discharge current and gap voltage with and without laser pulse overlap completely. Thus, no change in the discharge characteristics was found, that means no significant disturbance of the discharge physics in He and He/N 2 mixture can be assumed. Furthermore, no change in the discharge characteristics was identified due to shifting the moment of laser firing over the complete discharge cycle, variation of the axial laser position without hitting the charged dielectrics, and usage of the fundamental wavelength 1064 nm lsr λ = . Moreover, no long-term effect on the discharge behavior referred to laser heating of the buffer gas or the electrode materials occurred. These control measurements serve as an essential reference for the laser photodetachment experiment performed in He/O 2 mixtures.  . The depiction is the same that was used for the reference measurements. Unlike the results in He and He/N 2 mixtures, a small but systematic change in the laser-affected electrical quantities occurs when operating the discharge in He with O 2 admixtures.
This difference appears when the laser is fired during the prephase of the discharge solely within the highlighted temporal window. Since the duration of the discharge prephase is restricted by the rise time of the feeding voltage signal, this temporal window is shorter for the square wave-driven discharge (3 s µ ) in comparison to the sine wave operation (30 s µ ). In contrast, when the breakdown phase starts as well as during the discharge postphase, the laser exposure reveals no influence on the discharge behavior at all. Figure 8 illustrates the laser-induced effect on the discharge breakdown on a finer time scale according to the example that is given in figure 7(a). The laser-affected discharge current and the unaffected current are plotted by a dashed red line and a solid gray line, respectively. The area enclosed by the current signal corresponds to the amount of transported charge. In general, the difference between the discharge current pulses can be quantified by two characteristic features. The primary effect is the small decrease in the breakdown voltage that corresponds to a shift of the discharge ignition to earlier times. Consequently, the maximum of the laser-affected current is reached earlier (at t a ) than the maximum of the unaffected current (at t u ), which allows the definition of the first quantity,
Second, the amount of transported charge for the laser-affected discharge and the unaffected discharge is given by Q a and Q u , respectively. As can be seen in figure 8, Q a is smaller than Q u by their difference,
Both correlating quantities, the time shift t ∆ between the discharge current pulses and the difference in transported charge Q ∆ , serve for the further discussion of the laser photodetachment effect.
The laser-induced decrease in the breakdown voltage of the He/O 2 discharge indicates an amplified pre-ionization rate. In turn, this demands the supply of additional electrons that drive on the gas ionization beyond the unaffected development. Taking into account the control measurements in pure He and the He/N 2 mixtures, the enhanced pre-ionization results from the interaction between laser photons and oxygen species. Most likely, the laser photodetachment of negative ions provides the source of additional electrons due to the comparatively low photon energy of 2.3 eV . Laser photoionization can be excluded since the ionization energies of the most abundant neutral species during the discharge prephase, such as O 2 in its ground state and its metastable states, O, and O 3 , amount to 11.2 -13.6 eV [33].
Since no immediate change in the transported charge is observable at the moment of laser firing, the number of electrons resulting from laser photodetachment is below the detection limit. With regard to the measuring capacitance of 3.4 nF, typical amplitudes of the averaged measuring signal of a few volts, and the 12 bit vertical resolution of the LeCroy 9304AM, the resolution limit is estimated to be on the order of pC. Assuming the volume element of the laser beam that overlaps with the discharge volume to be approximately defined by length width height 1.2 cm 1.0 cm 0.1 cm
, a number density of the detached electrons can be estimated to be, at most, n 10 cm
In turn, n e ∆ -corresponds to the maximal negative ion density if all negative ions were detached by the laser. During the early discharge prephase at a low background electron density, even this small amount of additional electrons may noticeably contribute to the preionization dynamics.
O O He O He,
with rate coefficients estimated to be - -10 cm s 31 6 1 [34]. At elevated pressures, the thermolecular processes ( 11) and ( 12) outweigh within the zoo of possible reaction channels since the background gas He carries away the excess energy. A time constant τ can be estimated, which describes the relaxation based on electron reattachment processes,
Here, k i denotes the accordant rate coefficients of the attachment reactions ( 10)- (12)  , respectively, which is still longer than the electron transit time at high gap voltage values just before the breakdown onset. Consequently, the detached electrons move to the anodic dielectric and participate in ionization processes before they will be reattached.
Figure 9 compares selected attachment (i, ii) and ionization processes (iii, v) as well as the excitation of metastable He (iv) for the experimental conditions used. The rate coefficients were calculated with BOLSIG + as a function of the reduced electric field strength [35][36][37]. Note that reactions (10) and ( 11) are considered but not reaction (12). This is sufficient since the formation of O 3 -follows the dynamics of the O -density. The production of negative ions by attachment reactions outweighs at small reduced electric field strengths. However, the main processes that drive on the gas ioniz ation (including Penning ionization that follows the excitation of He metastable states) predominate starting from about 10 Td. Since the electric field distribution changes significantly during the barrier discharge cycle [22,24], one can expect a differential importance of electron attachment processes as well.
During the early prephase, the reduced electric field strength is comparatively small. The electron density increases slightly because of the low ionization rate, and the formation of negative ions is important. Thus, the weakly ionized gas may be characterized by significant content of negative ions, and additional electrons provided by laser photodetachment may noticeably amplify the pre-ionization. As a result, an earlier discharge ignition is observed in the experiment. In contrast, during the discharge breakdown, electron attachment is negligible in comparison to the effective ionization at a high electric field strength of the cathode-directed ionizing front. Consequently, the detached electrons do not influence significantly the discharge development. Therefore, no laser photodetachment effect is observed when the laser is fired during the discharge breakdown.

Dependencies.
In order to obtain more detailed knowledge of the laser photodetachment effect, systematic variations of the spatial (axial) position of the laser beam inside the discharge gap, the moment of laser firing within the discharge prephase, the laser pulse energy, and the oxygen concentration were carried out. The following discussion is focused on the sine wave-driven discharge in He with a 400 ppm O 2 admixture.
Figure 10 shows the time shift t ∆ and the difference in transported charge Q ∆ in response to the axial position of the laser beam. In more detail, t ∆ as well as Q ∆ were averaged over the temporal window of laser firing that is highlighted in figure 7(a). Moreover, the accordant reference measurement in pure He is depicted. Both correlating quantities, t ∆ and Q ∆ , behave qualitatively in the same way: there is no effect at all in pure He, whereas, in the case of the He/O 2 discharge, a minimum in the center and two maxima just in front of the anode and cathode are observed.
The axial profiles can be explained by two different aspects. First, the laser photodetachment effect should increase with the rising density of detached electrons and, hence, with the rising density of the negative ions. During the early prephase, no significant space charge is formed, wherefore the electric field is nearly constant across the gas gap, and the electron density increases exponentially toward the anode [18,23]. This phase is referred to as the Townsend prephase. The formation of negative ions follows the dynamics of the electron density according to reactions (10) and (11), wherefore the negative ion density should be maximal in front of the anode as well. Second, besides the density distribution of negative ions, the spatial origin of the detached electrons itself is crucial for the magnitude of the laser photodetachment effect. Electrons that are detached in front of the cathode act as additional "starting electrons." These electrons contribute the most to the pre-ionization by initiating avalanches with an exponentially increasing number of electrons toward the anode.
To summarize, the combination of both (i) the exponential increase in the negative ion density toward the anode and (ii) the larger influence of electrons detached near the cathode may explain the maximum values in front of the electrodes.
Figure 11 shows the time shift t ∆ and the difference in transported charge Q ∆ as a function of the moment of laser firing, each for different laser pulse energies. The moment of laser firing was varied within the prephase of the discharge cycle, which is indicated above. The laser beam passed through the center of the discharge gap. When shifting the moment of laser firing within the prephase, the laser photodetachment effect starts, reaches its maximum, and disappears just before the breakdown onset.
During the early prephase, the negative ion density may outweigh the background electron density so that additional (detached) electrons contribute significantly to the preionization. The maximum's position as well as the width of the profiles in t ∆ and Q ∆ depend on the relaxation time of the laser-affected pre-ionization. This relaxation time must be long enough to induce any influence on the discharge breakdown. Thus, the temporal profiles in t ∆ and Q ∆ are determined by the reaction kinetics and, therefore, depend on the He/O 2 mixture. The background electron density rises when coming closer to the breakdown onset. Finally, the comparatively marginal number of detached electrons do not crucially influence the ionization rate anymore.
The laser photodetachment effect grows with increasing laser pulse energy. This dependence is depicted in figure 12 for both quantities, t ∆ and Q ∆ in which each data point results from averaging over the temporal profile of respective laser pulse energy in figure 11.  The growth of t ∆ as well as Q ∆ is nonlinear but saturates at higher laser pulse energy. This is expected if the change in the discharge characteristics is caused by laser photodetachment of negative ions: with an increasing number of laser photons, the number of detached electrons rises as well and, finally, reaches saturation when all negative ions are detached within the laser beam volume [25]. Thus, the correlation between the laser photodetachment effect t ∆ and Q ∆ and the laser pulse energy E lsr can be described by a saturation approach,
C E sat s at lsr (14) Here, ∆t sat and Q sat ∆ are the saturation values, and the fitting parameter C defines the slope.
Figure 13 shows the measured and fitted saturation of Q ∆ as a function of the laser pulse energy for 200, 400, and 600 ppm O 2 admixtures to He. Since the unaffected discharge itself changes with variation of the O 2 concentration, the difference in transported charge Q ∆ is divided by the overall transported charge Q of the respective discharge. Within the range of admixtures studied, the laser photodetachment effect grows with rising O 2 concentration, but this trend is nonlinear. On the one hand, the yield of negative ions produced by reactions ( 10)-( 12) increases. On the other hand, the effective lifetime of He metastable states generated through detached electrons is reduced through reaction (6). The latter may result in a faster relaxation of the laseraffected pre-ionization at elevated presence of oxygen. In turn, the faster relaxation results in a diminished influence of detached electrons on the breakdown phase. Nevertheless, the increase in the negative ion density with rising O 2 concentration still dominates.
Within the measuring accuracy, the curves have similar fitting parameters = ± = ± -C C 0.064 0.007 mJ , 0.075
--C 0.010 mJ , 0.057 0.008 mJ
) ( ) for the 200, 400, and 600 ppm O 2 admixtures, respectively. At least, no contrary trend can be stated. This suggests a nearly constant ratio of the negative ion species O , O 2 --
, and O 3 -since the parameter C depends on the different photodetachment cross sections as will be discussed in the following section.

Distinction between the negative ion species
The magnitude of the laser photodetachment effect is determined by the photodetachment yield n n / e X ∆ --, defined as the ratio between the densities of detached electrons and negative ions. Table 1 summarizes essential photodetachment and photodissociation reactions involving the species X O , O , O    , respectively, can be written as
The time-dependent function f t X ( ) -is defined by
Here, A lsr denotes the cross-sectional area of the laser beam, and f t lsr ( ) is the normalized time-dependent distribution function of the laser pulse. Note that equation (17) presumes a homogeneous photon flux across A lsr . The time-dependent negative ion density is obtained by solving the rate equation (15),
where n X ( ) -∞ -is the initial density of the respective negative ion species X -and F t X ( ) -is the integrated function of f t X ( ) -in equation (17). Inserting equation (18) into equation ( 16) and solving the rate equation gives the time-dependent density of detached electrons, ( )
The photodetachment yield for
Just as the observed trends in t ∆ and Q ∆ of the laser photodetachment effect, the yield n n / e X ∆ -obeys a saturation law in response to the laser pulse energy.
Furthermore, comparing the cross sections for photodetachment and photodissociation of O 3 -, stated in table 1, reveals the photodissociation to be dominant. In this case, the yield of electrons is approximately obtained by the photodissociation of O 3 -into O -, subsequently followed by the photodetachment of O -. Again, the accordant rate equation system,
can be separated. The time-dependent density of O 3 -is obtained analogous to equation (18). Inserting n t O 3 ( ) -into the rate equation (22) and integration over time yield the time-dependent Odensity,
Since O -is treated as an intermediate state according to the rate equation system ( 21)-( 23), the initial density n O ( ) -∞ -is zero and, thus, the second term in equation ( 24) disappears. Finally, the electron yield resulting from the combined reaction channels of photodissociation and photodetachment is
Note that the saturation laws in equations ( 20) and ( 25) are independent of the actual distribution function f t lsr ( ) of the laser pulse. However, the slope as well as the saturation energy solely depend on C X -, which is specific for the respective negative ions species. The most uncertain quantities in C X -are the cross sections for photodetachment and photodissociation ± 0.2 0.1 [28,38] -
3 0 lsr 2 ± 3.5 0.5 [39] -   { } ∈ ----, calculated according to equations (20) and (25). The single yields are depicted by areas resulting from the uncertainties in C X -. Since these areas partially overlap, the covered edges are indicated by dashed lines.
First, the trends ∆ ∆ t t / sat and ∆ ∆ Q Q / sat are in good agreement, which again confirms their correlation. Both of these quantities are suitable to describe the laser photodetachment effect, which is determined and limited by the yield of detached electrons per negative ion. The strongest effect is observed when all negative ions are detached within the laser beam volume. Second, the laser photodetachment effect reaches saturation within the same range of laser pulse energy, which is necessary to reach saturation in the calculated yields. This is another important indication for the change in the discharge characteristics to be caused by the laser photodetachment of negative ions.
By analyzing the slope and the saturation energy, the distinction of the negative ion species  14, the experimental data lie between the calculated yields for the species O -and O 3 -, at least, for low laser pulse energies. However, the saturation energy of the laser photodetachment effect is higher than the saturation energy of the two yields. The latter were calculated based on the assumption of a homogeneous photon flux across the cross-sectional area of the laser beam. However, the spatial distribution of the laser radiation intensity actually decreases toward the edges. This explains the flat saturation behavior of the experimental data since the laser photodetachment effect still increases until the saturation is reached at the edges too. Beyond, the slight divergence of the laser beam inside the discharge volume contributes to the flat saturation behavior in a similar way.

Summary and outlook
The presented work investigates the influence of negative ions on the discharge development in electronegative systems based on a laser photodetachment experiment. A glow-like barrier discharge is operated in He with admixtures of O 2 up to 1 vol.% at a gas pressure of 500 mbar. The gap voltage and the discharge current of the discharge being affected by laser photodetachment are compared with the unaffected discharge characteristics. The laser-affected discharge has a lower breakdown voltage that corresponds to an earlier ignition onset. This effect is solely induced when the laser is fired during the prephase. The reduced breakdown voltage indicates an enhanced pre-ionization initiated by the detached electrons.
The laser photodetachment effect is quantified by the time shift of the ignition onset to earlier times and by a corresponding difference in transported charge. An increase in both quantities results for increasing the O 2 concentration as well as the laser pulse energy and for laser positions near to the anodic dielectric where the negative ion density should be maximal. In particular, the laser photodetachment effect obeys a saturation law in response to the laser pulse energy. The effect is determined and limited by the photodetachment yield, which is defined as the density ratio of detached electrons per negative ion.
The yield of detached electrons is calculated for the different negative ion species O , O 2 --
, and O 3 -by solving the rate equations for photodetachment and photodissociation. The range of the laser pulse energy that is necessary to reach saturation is roughly comparable for both the laser-induced change in the discharge characteristics as well as the calculated yields for the negative ion species. The comparison between the calculated curves and the experimental data suggests that O 2 -ions may be dominant. However, the laser photodetachment of -by means of the saturation method, it is necessary to perform further photodetachment experiments with a clearly defined spatial profile of homogeneous laser radiation intensity. The separation of O -and O 3
-by varying the laser wavelength is planned as well. Also, the experimental conditions need to be changed to measure a direct current caused by the detached electrons, instead of correlated secondary effects on the discharge only. In particular, the admixture of O 2 to the buffer gas should significantly exceed hundreds of parts per million to have larger negative ion densities at otherwise stable discharge conditions. Nevertheless, numerical simulations are necessary in order to estimate absolute number densities of the negative ion species and their dynamics, and to prove the understanding of the laser photodetachment effect as well as the actual influence of the spatial distribution of the laser radiation intensity.
Beyond, the influence of the negative ion formation on the microdischarge (MD) development in electronegative systems is of great interest as well. The breakdown duration and the lateral extent of a single MD channel should depend on the electronegativity. It is planned to measure the surface charge distribution as the footprint of the MD channel with and without laser photodetachment of negative ions.

