Abstract
A dielectric barrier discharge over distilled water was investigated by means of synchronized, fast electrical and optical diagnostics. For this purpose, a single, alumina-covered electrode was placed above a water surface and a grounded tungsten electrode underwater, while the gas gap was constantly flushed with synthetic air at atmospheric pressure. Discharge events occur at rising and falling slopes or at the plateaus of the applied high-voltage pulse. Due to the synchronized diagnostics, a direct comparison of electrical characteristics and optical features of individual discharge events was performed. In most cases, a single discharge channel develops between the tips of the dielectric and the Taylor cone. Surface discharge channels can also occur in the upper part of the electrodes, which can be explained by a water layer being formed on the dielectric and acting as a virtual electrode. The discharge morphology and dynamics were found to be independent of the voltage polarity, which contradicts to known experiments with bare metal pin electrodes instead of dielectric-covered ones.

I. INTRODUCTION
Electrical discharges in or in contact with water initiate complex plasma-chemical reactions and interactions. 1 Therefore, these discharges are currently intensively studied due to their potential application and bio-medical effects, [2][3][4][5][6][7][8] but also because of the exciting and challenging physics. [9][10][11][12][13][14] Discharges featuring at least one liquid electrode take place in a complex multi-phase system, i.e., solid, liquid, and gaseous phases are in contact with the active plasma zone. The interaction of a discharge in the gas phase above a liquid surface includes numerous processes and mechanisms like ionization, excitation, formation of negative ions, sputtering, electrolysis, and many more, near the gas-liquid interface. These depend on both the characteristics of the discharge in the gas phase and the properties of the liquid. 1 Furthermore, the evaporation of water during discharge activity, especially in repetitivedriven discharges, will affect the discharge and the gas composition and eventually the generated reactive species. 15 Most studies on discharges including a gaseous phase deal with an arrangement featuring metal pin electrodes over a liquid surface as described, e.g., in Refs. 16-19. Due to the metal electrode, a transition from glow (for DC voltage) or streamer to spark will occur. 20 To avoid sparking, the above-water electrode can be covered with dielectric, as done for AC high-voltage (HV) operated discharges in Refs. 21 and 22. On a time scale of breakdown, i.e., nanoseconds, water can act similar to a dielectric (depending on its electrical conductivity). 22 This also happens in initially low-conducting water (for an initial conductivity of σ ¼ 1 μS=cm and the relative permittivity of water ε r ¼ 80, the dielectric relaxation time τ ¼ ε 0 ε r =σ is about 6 μs) since the conductivity of the liquid is locally enhanced due to charge carriers generated by discharge activity. In addition, applying an electric field over water leads to the deformation of the water surface (the so-called Taylor cones 23 ), which consequently decreases the discharge gap resulting in lower breakdown voltages. 20 While the breakdown and discharge dynamics are well studied in the case of glow and spark discharges with metallic electrodes, the discharge formation with lower current densities using dielectric-covered electrodes was not intensively investigated, especially not for pulsed-driven discharges. Consequently, the main purpose of this contribution is the investigation of a pulsedoperated discharge in an arrangement with a dielectric-covered electrode over water. The dielectric-covered powered electrode introduces surface charges, which are expected to have an impact on breakdown and discharge development. Specifically, the influence of the HV polarity will be analyzed; since for AC-driven onesided discharges, a strong polarity dependency of the discharge development was reported in a similar arrangement. 22 This will be done by combined synchronized electrical and optical diagnostics to reveal the discharge structure and the corresponding voltage and current waveforms, which is a very powerful tool to get insight into the discharge behavior. 24 A full electrical characterization will deliver the transferred charge, the current maxima distribution together with consumed electrical energy and the power. Furthermore, this investigation aims for demonstrating the scientific potential of DBDs over water in a single-filament arrangement.

II. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP AND DIAGNOSTICS
A single, semi-spherical alumina-covered electrode with 2 mm outer radius (similar to the ones used in Ref. 25) was placed 1.7 mm above a stationary liquid surface (distilled water with an initial conductivity of % 1 μS/cm) and a grounded tungsten electrode underwater (0.5 mm below the undisturbed water level, 3 mm diameter) to fix the discharge at the same position for optical investigations, see Fig. 1(a). This is different for most other setups in the literature where metallic pin electrodes were used over plate electrodes under water, e.g., in Ref. 26. The water reservoir consisted of a modified Petri dish with hydrophobically treated quartz glass windows. This improves the optical side-on measurements by avoiding the capillary effect at the walls. The discharge arrangement was placed in a gas-tight cell, and the gas gap was constantly flushed with 300 sccm dry synthetic air at atmospheric pressure. The HV pulses with 100 ns rise/fall time were supplied by a Behlke switch (HTS 161-06-GSM). Thus, the water acts as a dielectric during the HV slopes. Symmetrical square-wave HV waveforms were applied using 2 kHz repetition frequency (the corresponding pulse width of 250 μs). The peak-to-peak voltage was 9 kV pp for all cases, either unipolar positive/negative or symmetrical bipolar, i.e., +4:5 kV in that case.
The electrical diagnostics consisted of fast voltage (Tektronix P6015A) and current probes (Bergoz CTF2.5) at HV and ground side. Optical measurements were performed through quartz glass windows with a gated iCCD camera (Andor iStar) equipped with UV-VIS objective (Nikon PF10545MF-UV) to record the discharge structure (spatial resolution Δx % 50 μm, maximal temporal resolution Δt ! 2 ns) occurring during the rising and falling slopes of the HV pulse. A special feature of the experimental setup is the synchronization between the optical and electrical diagnostics. The controller of the pulse source enables to trigger the pulse source, as well as the iCCD camera using a digital delay generator (Stanford Research Systems DG535 with ,100 ps trigger jitter). In this way, the electrical and optical diagnostics are synchronized, which allows for direct comparison of electrical characteristics and optical features of an individual discharge event. Additionally, the iCCD images were obtained in single shot and accumulation mode to evaluate the stability of the discharge emission features.

III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
When the voltage is applied at the dielectric-covered electrode, the so-called Taylor cone 23 is generated, which reduces the air gap between water and dielectric below 1 mm, see Fig. 1(a). This reduction of the air gap enables the operation of a repetitive singlefilament at 9 kV pp for all used HV pulses at 2 kHz. A further increase of the applied voltage to !10 kV led to an even shorter gap, i.e., the water level rises higher, and finally, the water will permanently contact the electrode or the dielectric breaks down, leading to a spark, which destroys the arrangement. Consequently, the peak-to-peak voltage was limited to 9 kV. Furthermore, all the presented results were obtained after approx. 10 min overall discharge run time to reach a steady state discharge operation.

A. Electrical characterization
The applied HV pulses of +9 kV, À9 kV, and +4:5 kV are displayed in Fig. 2 together with a visualization of the temporal discharge distribution using the envelope over 200 periods, which shows all occurring current peaks in one period (using the envelope mode of the scope). Discharges occur almost over the complete period, but mostly within a few microseconds after the HV slopes, which feature positive currents at rising slopes (RSs) and negative currents at falling slopes (FSs) similar to pulsed-operated DBDs in air. 27 This behavior was found for all three cases investigated here (+9 kV, À9 kV, and +4:5 kV). Generally, there is one discharge at

Journal of Applied Physics


ARTICLE
scitation.org/journal/jap the rising slope and one at the falling slope, like in classical pulsed DBDs in air. 28 It has to be noted that both unipolar (positive and negative) and the bipolar HV pulse featured no significant difference. The discharge at the slope, where the voltage drops to zero (FS for the positive pulse and RS for the negative pulse), is induced by the surface charges, which were accumulated on the dielectric during the discharge at the preceding HV slope. The same behavior was reported for a double-sided single-filament DBD, 29 i.e., only the peak-to-peak voltage is of relevance, not the polarity, which is a consequence of the charge stored in the system, when a dielectric is present in the discharge gap.
There is an overall discharge jitter of about 100 μs, but most discharges ignited within approximately 10 μs after the slope. The occurrence of discharge events during the plateau of the HV pulse indicates that the breakdown conditions were not reached during the HV slopes for 9 kV pp , which causes this ignition delay. Additionally, a strong scatter of the maximal and minimal current peaks (I max and I min , respectively) was found, see Fig. 2. Consequently, the discharge current maxima/minima distribution was analyzed. Therefore, the values of I max and I min were determined for 200 discharge events per slope and HV amplitude, and counted in 50 mA intervals, which is shown in Fig. 3. Also here, there is no significant difference between the different HV waveforms; the I max and I min values are roughly Gaussian distributed ranging from about 200 mA to almost 1 A, with a mean value of (480 + 200) mA (absolute value) for all cases. This is an upper limit since the current waveforms are overlayed by an oscillation due to the current probe (see the next paragraph), but this has no effect on the distribution. Surprisingly, the current peaks at the rising and the falling slopes feature a similar distribution, like in a symmetrical DBD, although the investigated arrangement is not symmetrical.
Figure 4 shows as an example of voltage and current waveforms of single discharge events at rising and falling slopes for +9 kV measured at the HV side. It has to be mentioned that the discharge current peak could not be measured at the grounded FIG. 2. Visualization of discharge distribution of applied voltages of +9 kV, À9 kV, and +4:5 kV using the envelope over 200 periods. FIG. 3. Distribution of the discharge current maxima I max (at the rising slope) and minima I min (at the falling slope) using 200 discharge events per slope and HV amplitude (50 mA counting interval).
side, most likely due to the water reservoir acting as a low-pass filter, since it has a considerable capacity and a non-zero resistance. Consequently, all shown current measurements were obtained at the HV side, see Fig. 1(b). The displacement current during the slopes is approx. 100 mA. A small voltage drop of some hundred volts occurring at the discharge current peak is caused by the characteristics of the HV pulse supply. Additionally, all current pulses feature an overlaying oscillation of about 500 MHz, which is due to the bandwidth limitation of the current probe, i.e., it is no real discharge current characteristic. These oscillations lead to an overestimation of the current maxima/minima of about 30%.
Nevertheless, the current waveforms have the typical shape for DBDs in air, i.e., a steep increase and an exponential decrease. 27 The duration of the current flow was about 10 ns, which gives an indication of the main discharge duration. The transferred charge was estimated by integration over the discharge current. It has to be mentioned that the transferred charge determined by the current integration is the same for the current measurements at the HV and the grounded side. The aforementioned additional oscillations and smoothing at the grounded side do not violate the charge conservation, i.e., there is no (significant) amount of charge, which is not transferred to the ground side. Transferred charges of single main discharge events are generally in the order of magnitude of 1 nC and 3.2 nC for RS and 2.6 nC for FS for the example in Fig. 4. Using a Q-U plot (Lissajous figures) obtained from averaging 1000 periods, the mean transferred charge per slope was found to be about 4 nC (see Fig. 5 from the bending at % 8:5 kV for the RS and at % 1 kV for the FS). Since there is a small continuous current flow due to the conductance of the water, the transferred charge calculated only by the integration over the current peak (i.e., over around 100 ns) is slightly lower compared to the average value. The consumed electrical energy per period was estimated from the enclosed area of the Q-U plots 28,30 resulting in (28 + 5) μJ and an average power of (56 + 10) mW at 2 kHz repetition frequency, depending only on the peak-to-peak value of the HV pulse.

B. Discharge structures in the volume and on the surface
The discharge emission structure was obtained using side-on iCCD images [see Fig. 1(b)]. Figure 6 shows the discharge structure over water for an applied voltage of +9 kV at both slopes. The discharge arrangement was back-illuminated to visualize the water surface shape in addition to the discharge emission. Displayed is the discharge emission measured by an iCCD gate width of 10 μs and 500 accumulations per image.  The filament position is fixed between the electrode and the water surface due to the single-filament arrangement, and a thin channel of about 100 μm thickness forms in the gas gap. When the voltage is applied at the dielectric-covered electrode, the so-called Taylor cone 23 is generated, which reduces the air gap between water and dielectric [see Fig. 1(a) for photograph]. This is observed at both HV slopes reducing the initial discharge gap from 1.7 mm to 0.9 mm on average for 9 kV pp . Consequently, only the peak-to-peak voltage matters in a dielectric-covered single-filament arrangement over water, see Fig. 6 for the positive HV case. Furthermore, the shape and size of the Taylor cone are independent of the voltage polarity as can be seen in Fig. 7 (left column), in contrast to metal-pin-to-water arrangements reported in the literature like in Refs. 18 and 31. Besides, a reflection of the volume discharge is visible on the Taylor cone in all images (in line below the volume discharge channel), i.e., no discharge channel forms on the water surface.
The filament in the gas volume branches into several channels on the dielectric surface, like in classical DBDs in air-like gas mixtures. 27 Furthermore, additional surface discharges occur in the upper part of the dielectric, i.e., some millimeters above the dielectric tip, which are not connected to the volume discharge. These discharges are weaker and do not appear in every period. Their position corresponds with the end of a water film, which builds up on the dielectric surface within the first minutes of discharge operation (see Sec. III C for details).
Due to the repetition frequency of 2 kHz, water was continuously evaporated during the discharges, i.e., they operate in a saturated water-air atmosphere. Replacing the synthetic air gas feed with the same flow of pure N 2 led to no significant change in the discharge behavior, which was checked by recording overview spectra featuring the well-known bands of N 2 (C) (not shown, see, e.g., Ref. 25). This is an indication that the discharge characteristics are mainly determined by the water vapor concentration in the gas volume and on the surface.
In Fig. 7, images of discharge morphologies at rising and falling slopes are shown for all applied HV pulses. For better comparison and illustrate the spatial position, the accumulated, backilluminated images like in Fig. 6 are displayed on the left side. The second picture from the left is the accumulation of 500 periods, but without back-illumination. They give an overall impression of the morphology, but it is necessary to analyze images of individual discharge events (the so-called single shots) to get a full insight. These single shots are shown in Fig. 7 (middle and right side), revealing three different discharge structures.
In most cases, a discharge channel between the dielectric electrode and the water surface was found, accompanied by spreading surface discharges on the dielectric connected to the channel. There are events with surface discharges not only connected to the volume channel but also on the dielectric with a dark region of about 3 mm from the dielectric tip upwards.
It seems that the alumina surface is covered by a water film beginning at the tip of the electrode some millimeters upwards on the dielectric, which is caused by the evaporation due to the energy input into the water and condensation. This water film generates a conductive layer on the dielectric, i.e., it acts as a virtual electrode. Consequently, this leads to the ignition of surface discharges with distinct channels, which are typical for filamentary surface discharges with bare metal electrodes attached to dielectrics. [32][33][34][35] The vertical starting position of these surface discharges is independent of the polarity and the slope of the applied HV.
Furthermore, in one of about 200 discharge events, no volume discharge channel occurred, but only the aforementioned surface discharge starting 3 mm above the tip. They were found for all applied HV pulses at both slopes, except at the rising slope for the +4:5 kV amplitude. It is supposed that they also occur for this case but could not be recorded due to the relatively rare appearance of this event.
Comparing the accumulated iCCD recordings without back-illumination and the single shots for the three different discharge structures indicates that the volume channel features the highest intensity and occurs in most discharges together with the surface discharges directly connected to the channel. The second surface discharge igniting vertically higher (further away from the tip) on the alumina surface is much weaker in the accumulated images compared to the single shots, where they are visible, i.e., their appearance is irregular and less frequent (the surface discharges are generally weaker compared to the volume discharge).
Besides the detection of the different discharge structures, the most striking result is the fact that hardly any difference between the three different used HV polarities and the HV slope therein was found. The missing polarity dependence of the discharge characteristics disagrees with the most other results reported in the literature, where metallic pin electrodes were used over plate electrodes under water, e.g., in Ref. 26 for pulsed discharges. There, discharge channels over the water surface also arose, and a short phase with high pulse current followed by a transition from diffuse to constricted discharge with a linear increase of current was reported. This is absent in the presented results due to the dielectric-covered electrode. However, the structure of the discharge in our experiment is similar to the first phase in Refs. 26 and 31 before the transition to spark. A sphere-to-sphere arrangement with a dielectric electrode (glass) and an underwater mesh electrode with 1 mm gap was investigated in Ref. 22. Their AC-driven discharge features a similar discharge emission structure (volume channel and spreading surface discharge on the dielectric) at the positive half-wave, but not at the negative half-wave, where only weak emission was recorded in the volume, while the major emission was on the water surface, like a cathode spot. It has to be mentioned that the water level was fixed in their experiment by the spherical underwater mesh electrode.
Generally, the absence of any significant polarity dependence for the pulsed DBD over water indicates that the deposition of surface charges on the dielectric in combination with a water layer on the surface rearranges the electric field distribution in the gap to similar conditions for all three used HV pulses.

C. Synchronized electrical and optical measurements
Since there is an apparent difference between individual discharge structures, synchronized electrical and optical measurements were performed to get insight into the correlation of the discharge emission and current. Figure 8 shows two examples of single iCCD shots, voltage and current for the same individual event. Voltage FIG. 7. Variety of discharge emission structures for all applied HV pulses [(a) +9 kV, (b) À9 kV, and (c) +4:5 kV] at both slopes recorded accumulated and in single shot, normalized intensity displayed in pseudo-color, the same relative scale as in Fig. 6.

FIG. 8.
Voltage and current characteristics with the corresponding iCCD single shot at the falling slope of +9 kV for two different discharge morphologies (no backillumination, an iCCD gate width of 10 μs, current peak during the HV slope is the displacement current). and current characteristics are compared with the corresponding iCCD single shots at the falling slope of a +9 kV pulse for two different cases, where only the volume channel with connected surface discharges occurs. The images are not back-illuminated, and the iCCD gate width was 10 μs. The emission intensity is higher in the volume for higher discharge current leading to a stronger and longer voltage drop, accompanied by a farther spread of distinct surface discharge channels. A higher current maximum in combination with an increase of the current flow duration results in a higher transferred charge and a longer drop of the applied voltage. This is most likely a consequence of different surface conductivity on the dielectric surface due to the water layer, i.e., a higher surface conductivity leads to further expansion of the discharge channel on the dielectric and thus to a longer current flow. Additionally, it has to be mentioned that the higher current peak does not have an impact on the emission diameter of the volume channel.
Finally, the rare case (approximately one in 100 periods), where only surface discharges occur, is analyzed. Figure 9 shows voltage and current characteristics with the corresponding iCCD single shots at the falling slope of a À9 kV pulse for the case without a volume channel. This image is without backillumination, and the iCCD gate width was 10 μs. The electrode surface and the average water surface level featuring a Taylor cone (see Fig. 7) are indicated by solid white lines. However, it is possible that in this case the water surface connects to the dielectric surface (indicated by dashed white lines), which prevents the generation of a volume discharge channel (see Fig. 10), i.e., the water layer on the dielectric surface acts as a virtual electrode.
There are various surface discharge channels with lower emission compared to the volume discharge (cf. the intensity in Fig. 8), but no emission in the volume. Also, no main current peak is apparent, what is shown in the lower graph of Fig. 9 where the zoomed in, smoothed current (green area in the top graph) is depicted. The current peak is about 5 mA (about 100 times lower than the average current peak for a volume discharge), but much longer compared to the discharges featuring a volume channel (cf. Fig. 8). Only the displacement current of about 100 mA during the falling HV slope is better visible. In Fig. 10, a back-illuminated iCCD single shot of a surface-discharge-only event reveals the direct attachment of the Taylor cone with the dielectric tip. The surface discharge features only a single channel and the corresponding current peak is a little lower and shorter. It occurs during the decay of the displacement current, which is prolonged by the drop of the applied voltage due to the bridging of the gap by the attachment of the water surface to the dielectric tip. Consequently, the surface discharge inception is most likely induced by the combination of surface charges and the conductive water layer. Generally, it can be stated that the water covering on the dielectric has a strong impact on the discharge characteristics, i.e., it enables a discharge mode, which cannot exist in DBDs without a water layer.
FIG. 10. Voltage and current characteristics with the corresponding iCCD single shots at the falling slope of À9 kV for the case without a volume channel with back-illumination and an iCCD gate width of 10 μs, and the lower graph shows the zoomed in smoothed current (green area in the top graph); note that the initial current tip during the falling HV slope is displacement current only.

FIG. 9.
Voltage and current characteristics with the corresponding iCCD single shots at the falling slope of À9 kV for the case without a volume channel (no back-illumination, an iCCD gate width of 10 μs, solid white lines indicate the electrode position and the mean water surface, dashed lines the assumed attachment of the water to the tip like in Fig. 10), and the lower graph shows the zoomed in smoothed current (green area in the top graph); note that the initial current tip during the falling HV slope is displacement current only.

IV. SUMMARY
Analyzed was the behavior of single-filament DBDs on the water surface by synchronized optical and electrical diagnostics. When the voltage is applied at the dielectric-covered electrode, the so-called Taylor cone is generated, which reduces the air gap between water and dielectric. The shape and size of the Taylor cone are independent of the voltage polarity, in contrast to metal-pin-to-water arrangements. This reduction of the air gap enables the operation of a repetitive single-filament at 9 kV pp for all HV pulse shapes (+9 kV, À9 kV, and +4:5 kV). Due to water evaporation during discharge events at 2 kHz repetition rate, the discharge is running mostly in water vapor, i.e., no difference between air and N 2 atmosphere was found. Additionally, a water film forms on the dielectric surface. The discharge is located in the volume at the shortest air gap with a channel diameter of about 100 μm and surface discharge channels with and without direct contact to discharge channels in the volume arise on the dielectric. The discharge emission features distinct structures on the surface, which have a significant impact on the transferred charge and the emission intensity, i.e., a "stronger" discharge leads to longer surface discharge channels. Furthermore, the change in the water level led to a change in the discharge gap lengths, which results in a strong scatter of the current amplitudes, although the average current peak values as well as the mean gap length are stable. Remarkably, no impact of HV pulse polarity on the discharge emission and the current waveforms was found, and the identified three different discharge structures (only volume channel, volume channel and separated surface channels, surface channels only) occur for all cases.
In summary, it was shown that a dielectric electrode over a water surface prevents sparking of the discharge, but the system is more complex due to water layer on the dielectric, which can apparently prevent a volume discharge.
Further experimental investigations are required to improve the clarity of the conclusions presented within this paper. In particular, high temporal resolution imaging of the volume discharge will be acquired for the determination of the breakdown mechanism. Furthermore, in preparation for the N 2 -He gas admixtures, the Stark polarization spectroscopic method 36 will be utilized to determine the electric field strength. In addition, an analysis with a focus on the impact of water vapor on the discharge stability and the development of surface discharges should be performed, which is of importance for all DBDs operated in humid atmospheres.

