Abstract
A study on the scalability of discharge characteristics of a single-filament dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) to a spatially one-dimensional multi-filament arrangement driven by the same high-voltage (HV) pulses was performed for a gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 at 1 bar. Both arrangements feature a 1 mm gap with dielectric-covered electrodes featuring two hemispherical alumina caps for the single-filament and two parallel alumina-tubes for the multi-filament arrangement. The DBDs were characterised by electrical measurements (for peak current, energy, and power) accompanied by iCCD and streak imaging to determine the filament number and the discharge development in the gas gap and on the surfaces. It was found that the electrical quantities scale with a constant factor between the single-and multi-filament arrangement, which is expected to be related to the filament number. In the multi-filament arrangement, the pulsed operation leads to filament formation in the entire gap in lateral direction within less than 2 ns. Furthermore, particular breakdown or discharge inception regimes were identified for the multi-filament DBDs. These regimes could be generated at the falling slope of asymmetrical HV pulses featuring e.g. a double-streamer propagation, which was previously reported for single-filament DBDs. Consequently, it was proven that the discharge manipulation by varying the HV pulse widths obtained for single-filament DBDs can also be applied in a one-dimensional multi-filament arrangement, i.e. an upscaling based on the knowledge for single-filament DBDs seems to be generally possible.

Introduction
Dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) are a common tool to generate non-thermal atmospheric pressure plasmas [1][2][3], which are used for e.g. chemical processing or gas purification [4][5][6][7]. In molecular gas mixtures, DBDs are in most cases filamentary, i.e. individual constricted discharge channels are formed, which are transient on the ns time scale [8,9]. It was shown in various studies that the generation of reactive species is more efficient for pulsed-operated discharges than for classical sine-driven operation [10][11][12][13]. In plate-toplate arrangements, DBDs feature a wide variety of lateral, self-organising structures and patterns, which depend e.g. on the gas mixture, the pressure and the electrode area [14,15] Previous investigations on pulsed-driven DBDs in a singlefilament arrangement have demonstrated that the breakdown and the discharge development can be directly controlled by the HV pulse width [16,17]. By using asymmetrical HV pulses, the discharge at the subsequent HV slope is generated in a high space charge environment generated by the residual charges from the afterglow of the discharge event occurring at the previous HV slope. This residual space charge density in the gap (pre-ionisation) leads to different electric field configurations in the volume prior to the subsequent discharge inception, which is the so-called volume memory effect [18]. The pre-ionisation level can be used to determine the breakdown characteristics [19] in addition to the surface memory effect [20]. Generally, plasma-chemical reactions are mainly triggered by the physical processes within single filaments [9], while many filaments occur in DBD arrangements, which are used in practice [21]. Since it was already demonstrated that it is possible to significantly influence the plasma parameters in single-filament arrangements [19], this could be a way to initiate more selective and effective plasma-chemical processes in multi-filament arrangements. However, it is up to now unknown if the results obtained for single-filament DBDs can be directly transferred to multi-filament arrangements. In addition, open questions do not only concern the electrical breakdown in the gap, but also the interaction of volume and surface processes in multi-filament arrangements [22][23][24][25][26] and large scale plasma reactors [4,5,27]. Therefore, the central aim of this work is to clarify if the dominant effect of volume pre-ionisation for single-filament arrangements occurs also in multi-filament arrangements. For this purpose, a systematic study on the scalability of single filament characteristics to multi-filament arrangements was performed in a N 2 -O 2 gas mixture at atmospheric pressure. To exclude as many side effects as possible, the same alumina was used as the dielectric barrier, while the same HV pulse source and gas mixture of 0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 were utilised, which was used for most of the previous studies on single-filament DBDs [16,19,[28][29][30][31][32]. The gas composition was chosen since the single-filament DBD is temporally very stable (low discharge inception jitter <1 ns) and especially reproducible [33] at this specific O 2 /N 2 ratio due to a minimum recombination rate of positive molecular oxygen and nitrogen ions for 0.1 vol% O 2 admixture [34]. Additionally, this particular gas mixture enhances the effect of pre-ionisation, which is beneficial for a comparison of its effect on the DBD characteristics.
The DBD will be characterised by electrical and optical diagnostics to track the discharge development in the volume and on the dielectric surfaces. The comparison of both singleand multi-filament operation will allow statements concerning the existence of comprehensive mechanisms-e.g. the preionisation-to control the breakdown and the dynamics of pulsed DBDs. Additionally, a comparison of essential quantities, such as discharge current and consumed electrical energy for single-and multi-filament DBDs, will reveal if the electrical characteristics scale with the number of filaments.

Experimental set-up
For the purpose of directly comparing single-and multifilament DBDs, two different arrangements were used. The single-filament DBD was ignited in a Plexiglas cell with quartz windows, which is shown in figure 1(a) and has been described in detail in [16]. It holds two hemispherical alumina-covered electrodes with 2 mm radius featuring a 1 mm gas gap and 0.5 mm dielectric thickness at the tips (determined by x-ray measurements of the electrodes, schematic representation shown in figure 2(a)). This configuration geometrically forces a spatially-fixed filament position in the gap centre, see figure 1(a). The multi-filament arrangement was positioned in a pumpable stainless steel chamber with a quartz window at the front (see figure 1(b), gas inlet on the top and gas outlet at the bottom). To exclude any impact of the dielectric material on the comparison between the singleand the multi-filament DBDs, the same alumina tubes (manufacturer Friatec) were used for both arrangements. The multifilament arrangement with 1 mm gas gap consists of two parallel alumina cylinders (4 mm outer and 2 mm inner diameter with metal rods of 2 mm diameter inside, i.e. the thickness of the dielectric in the gap d b is 1 mm on each electrode, see figure 2(b)). Since the use of the same dielectric material was essential for the experiments, the d b for the multi-filament arrangement is twice of that for the single-filament arrangement. Unfortunately, this could not be avoided, because there are no tubes with a wall thickness of 0.5 mm of this specific alumina commercially available (but the different d b was taken into account in the analysis). The lateral length of the 1 mm gas gap is about 10 mm with an increasing gas gap distance at the left and right end due to the hemispherically-shaped tips (see figure 2(b)). The geometry of this arrangement is similar to the one used in [35] for the purpose of robust current peak detection.
The total gas flow through the cell was set to 100 sccm for the single-filament arrangement and to 300 sccm for the multi-filament arrangement (to compensate the bigger discharge chamber volume) by mass flow controllers connected to gas cylinders (N 2 , O 2 , purity 5.0 and 4.8, respectively). The O 2 concentration of 0.1 vol% in N 2 was controlled by an oxygen sensor (ZIROX SGM 7.4) for both arrangements during the experiments.
Unipolar square wave pulses with 10 kV amplitude and 10 kHz repetition frequency generated by a HV pulse source (DEI PVX-4110, 50 ns rise/fall time (10%-90%) of HV slope) were used to operate the DBDs in both arrangements. The HV pulse width t pulse was varied from 0.2 to 50 µs. A fast iCCD camera (Andor iStar DH734-18U-A3) and a streak camera system (Hamamatsu C5680-21C) connected to a longdistance microscope (Questar QM100 with Quartz optics) recorded the DBD structure and the spatio-temporal development through a quartz glass window (see figure 3). The spatial resolution of both cameras was approximately 2 µm for the single filament arrangement and approximately 20 µm for the multi-filament arrangement to allow the visualisation of the complete discharge gap (using a B. Halle Nachfl. OUV 1.4.40 UV achromat instead of the QM100). The maximal temporal resolutions of the iCCD and streak camera systems were 2 ns and 20 ps, respectively. Electrical measurements were performed with fast voltage and current probes (Tektronix P6015A, and custom-build 50 Ω resistor [36]), and recorded by a digital sampling oscilloscope (Tektronix DPO 7254C, 2.5 GHz, 40 GS s -1 ). The same electrical diagnostics were used for both arrangements.

Experimental results and discussion


Electrical characterisation
The applied HV waveforms with varying pulse widths are displayed over a complete period of 100 µs in figure 4(a). The pulse width ranges from 50 µs corresponding to a symmetrical HV waveform (i.e. the same time between the rising slope (RS) and subsequent falling slope (FS)) to strong asymmetrical pulses down to t pulse = 0.2 µs, see figure 4(b). There is an individual discharge event at the RS and the subsequent falling HV slope of the unipolar pulse. They are induced by the electric field strength in the gap, which is strongly influenced by surface charges from the previous discharge, even though the polarity of the applied HV is not changing (unipolar operation) [28]. The total discharge current I tot is the sum of the displacement current I disp and the discharge current I DBD . These components of the total current can be identified in figure 4(b) and (c) for the shortest HV pulse width. The displacement current (black curve in figures 4(b) and (c)) could be directly measured, since the discharge did not always ignite immediately after applying the HV pulse. It is obvious that the maximum value of I DBD with respect to the amplitude of I disp is much higher for the multi-filament arrangement compared to the single-filament arrangement. The reason for this is the fact that the discharge current peak for the multifilament case is the superposition of multiple individual DBD channels. Although there are many channels in this multifilament arrangement, the discharge inception jitter is about 1.5 ns at the RS, while it is below 1 ns for the single-filament DBD (both values were obtained analysing about 11 000 individual discharge events as described in [37]). This will be analysed further for the multi-filament case with respect to the discharge inception in the gap using the optical diagnostics (in section 3.4).
The oscillations on the current signals visible in figures 4(b) and (c) were induced by distortions of the steep I DBD rise at the RS. Since they depend on the I DBD amplitude, they are more pronounced for the multi-filament case (see figure 4(c)), but these oscillations are slightly visible for the single-filament, too (see figure 4(b)). Furthermore, it is evident that the discharge current peak at the FS of the 0.2 µs HV pulse is strongly smoothed and much lower compared to the one at the RS both for the single-and multi-filament arrangement. This is the first indication that the volume pre-ionisation plays a dominant role in both arrangements and can be directly used to control the discharge characteristics at the FS via t pulse variation [19]. The excellent scalability of I DBD between the single-and the multifilament DBD is demonstrated in figure 5 for t pulse = 1 µs. Despite the different arrangement geometry the shape of the discharge current at both slopes is the same for both arrangements, i.e. the I DBD of a single-filament DBD scaled by a factor of 7.5 closely resembles the discharge current for the multifilament DBD (see figure 5). The comparison of I DBD at the RS shown in figure 6 reveals a smoother rise of the current for the multi-filament case, which is due to the fact that the multiple discharge channels do not ignite simultaneously (but within few ns, see page 9). In addition, it is visible in figure 6 that the oscillations after the peak feature the same shape, which is another indication that they are most likely connected to induced distortions of the current measurement system.
In figure 7, the absolute peak values of the discharge current at the RS and FS are displayed as a function of t pulse for  single-and multi-filament DBDs. The reduced impact of the pre-ionisation on the current maxima/minima with longer HV pulse width is evident for both arrangements (and approximately the same values were obtained at both slopes for a symmetrical HV pulse, i.e. t pulse = 50 µs), while a constant scaling factor of about 7.5 fits relatively well for almost all cases. The deviation at the FS for t pulse = 10 µs is an indication that for this specific case, the impact of the pre-ionisation is weaker, which can also be seen in spatial discharge emission structure (see iCCD image for t pulse = 10 µs in section 3.3 on page 7).
For the determination of the consumed electrical energy per period E el , Q-U plots were used both for single-and multifilament DBDs with different HV pulse widths, see figures 8(a) and (b). The transferred charge Q was calculated by integrating the total current over one period. The enclosed area of a Q-U plot is the equivalent of E el [1]. In figure 8(c) the values of this energy are displayed for both cases over t pulse . The consumed electrical energies decrease both for single-and multi-filament DBDs with shortening of the HV pulse width. This was reported already for the single-filament case, and could be explained by the weaker discharge event at the FS due to pre-ionisation [19]. Since the same behaviour was also found for the multifilament cases, it can therefore be also related to increasing pre-ionisation at the FS. In addition, the average electrical discharge power P el can be obtained by multiplying E el with the repetition frequency. P el is ranging from about 90 to 160 mW for the single-filament and from 0.7 to 1.1 W for the multifilament DBDs. The values of E el and consequently also for P el for the single-filament DBDs scale with the same factor as the discharge current (approximately 7.5) and describe the dependence of E el (and P el ) on t pulse for the multi-filament DBDs quite well. When assuming that the number of filaments in the multi-filament arrangement N MF is the scaling factor, the different thicknesses of the dielectric d b have to be considered (see figure 2), i.e. the following relation reported in [38] has to be taken into account (ε r … dielectric constant):
While the gap width d gap and ε r are the same for both arrangements, d b is 1 mm for one electrode in the multifilament case, but only 0.5 mm for one electrode in the singlefilament case, i.e. the transferred charge in the multi-filament arrangement Q MF scales with a factor of 1/2 in addition to N MF :
with N MF = 15 ± 2 for all cases at the RS. This number was obtained from iCCD single shots.
Concerning the assumed scaling factor N MF /2, it has to be noted that I DBD (and consequently Q) has to be scaled with another factor depending on the capacitances of the gap and the dielectric barriers [39]. However, due to the different geometries of the discharge arrangement it is not clear if the approach of the equivalent circuit, which leads to this factor, can be directly applied here.
Nevertheless, the fact that the electrical quantities for the multi-filament DBDs can be reproduced by the quantities obtained for the single-filament DBDs by using only a constant factor, is a strong indication that the characteristics of a singlefilament DBD can be directly transferred to a multi-filament arrangement, especially with respect to the impact of different pre-ionisation. It has to be noted that this constant scaling factor does not generally imply that the impact of d b on the discharge properties is linear. In the next section, the spatiotemporal discharge development of DBDs will be analysed to evaluate if breakdown characteristics of the single-filament DBDs can be found in the multi-filament arrangement, too.

Evaluation of the time-integrated spatial discharge structure
In figure 9, the spectrally-integrated discharge emission structures of an individual discharge event as well as accumulated over 1000 discharges are shown for both HV slopes of the single-filament DBD. Under the investigated pulsed operation, the discharge is always filamentary, i.e. it features a thin constricted channel in the volume and spreading surface discharge channels on the dielectrics, which can be distinguished in the images of individual discharge events only. While the channel in the volume is spatially fixed (as can be seen in the accumulated images compared to the single shots), the emission on the dielectric surfaces features no distinct structures; except for the footpoints, where the volume channel touches the dielectrics. This indicates that the positions of the surface discharges are changing for each individual discharge event, but they are uniformly distributed leading to the impression of an homogenous emission on the surfaces, which decays with the distance to the gas gap.
Since the iCCD images in figure 9 show the discharge emission for the case of a 1 µs HV pulse, the discharges at the FS are strongly influenced by the pre-ionisation in the gas gap caused by the preceding discharge at the RS. This leads to a special breakdown regime at the FS, which differs significantly from the regular discharge inception by a cathode-directed ionisation front (positive streamer [1,40]), which is present at the RS [16]. The breakdown regime at the FS, which features both a cathode-and anode-directed streamer-like propagation, was already thoroughly investigated for pulsed-driven singlefilament DBDs, see e.g. [17][18][19], and is therefore not shown here.
In the multi-filament arrangement, however, the discharge emission structure recorded by iCCD imaging is different. For all HV pulse widths at the RS, the discharges in the gap feature only indistinct constricted channels accompanied by diffuse emission within the lateral dimension of the gap, especially visible in the single-shots in figures 10(c), (g), (k) and (o). Furthermore, in the iCCD images accumulated over 1000 subsequent discharge events for the RS in figures 10(a), (e), (i) and (m), it can be seen that the major part of the emission is located near the anode, while a few distinct channels are visible, too. In the single-shots for the RS, it is also evident that surface discharge channels are propagating on the dielectric surface of both the anode and the cathode. Due to the fact that the images were taken side-on, the actual length of these channels on the surface is much longer than it appears in the images. This is because the electrodes are cylindrical, i.e. the surface discharges are propagating on the curvature towards the line of sight. The discharges at the FS feature different emission structures depending on the HV pulse widths. For the cases of 0.2 and 1 µs HV pulse widths, the discharges at the FS slope ignite in high pre-ionisation in the gap generated by the previous discharge at the RS. Consequently, there is even more suppression of distinct volume discharge channels. Especially at the FS of a 0.2 µs HV pulse, the emission is dominated by the re-ignition of surface discharges on the cathode (anode at the RS), while there is only minor emission in the volume. Additionally, there seems to be some kind of 're-illumination' of the surface discharge channels tips of the previous discharge event at the RS (see the emission spots on the top of the anode surface in figure 10(d)). This is most likely caused by the electric field reconfiguration during the FS, which happens while the surface discharge channels are still conductive. This is in accordance with the observations for the single-filament DBD in [17,19], where a similar re-ignition behaviour was reported. Since the reversal of the electric field in the gap by surface discharges is obviously not completed for the 0.2 µs case, the labels 'cathode' and 'anode' were set in quotation marks in figures 10(b) and (d). The absence of distinct volume discharge channels is also partly visible for the 1 µs HV pulse width (especially in the lateral gap centre, see figure 10(h)), while the major emission occurs here on the anode surface, not on the cathode like for the FS at the 0.2 µs case. This is an indication that the reversal of the electric field caused by deposited surface charges during the discharge at the RS is at least partly completed when the FS occurs. The discharges at the FS for 10 and 50 µs HV pulse widths feature no distinct differences compared to the ones at the RS except for the exchange of anode and cathode, i.e. they appear to be vertically mirrored. This is an indication of a reduced pre-ionisation impact for the 10 µs HV pulse width compared to the single-filament DBD, which could already be assumed from the electrical characteristics (see figures 7 and 8(c)). Generally, the impact of volume pre-ionisation is stronger in the single-filament arrangement compared to the multi-filament one, since the filament position is fixed in the gap centre, i.e. there is almost no radial movement of the discharge channel.

Analysis of the lateral emission structure for the multi-filament arrangement
The iCCD images of the discharge emission can be used to analyse the lateral position of the filament occurrence. Although there is some diffuse emission throughout the complete gap, as can be seen e.g. in figures 10(c), (g), (k), (l), (o) and(p), there seem to be some underlying lateral structures, which cannot be directly distinguished from these images. Therefore, the accumulated images were used to detect lateral structures appearing for discharges for all HV pulse widths at both HV slopes, since the accumulated iCCD recordings contain the information of the mean lateral discharge occurrence. For this purpose, a lateral profile averaged over 80 µm in the centre of the gap was extracted from all accumulated iCCD images displayed in figure 10. In figure 11, these profiles are displayed over the lateral orientation of the gap, where '0' indicates the lateral gap centre. The emission intensities displayed in figures 11(a) and (b) for the RS and FS at different HV pulse widths can be directly compared. At the RS, these intensities are approximately the same (in accordance with the similar values of the discharge current maxima, see figure 7). In addition, the peaks in these structures, indicating the mean lateral discharge channel positions, are in fair agreement. This means that, although the emission profiles are somehow blurred by the underlying diffuse emission and the spatial jitter of individual volume discharge channel positions, there are some distinct lateral positions, where the volume channels occur independent of the HV pulse width. The same is true for the FS (see figure 11(b)), i.e. the same mean lateral emission structure occurs. However, this is hardly distinguishable, since the emission intensity is significantly reduced at the FS for short HV pulse widths due to the strong impact of the pre-ionisation (which also occurs for single-filament DBDs, see [19]). For a proper comparison of the lateral discharge emission structures, the extracted emission profiles were normalised with respect to the mean emission intensity in the gap centre in figures 11(c) and (d). While there is no big difference between the actual and normalised structures at the RS (compare figures 11(a) and (c)), the lateral profiles at the FS can be much better compared using the normalised visualisation, see figure 11(d). Although there seems to be no significant emission in the volume for the discharges at the FS for HV pulse widths of 0.2 and 1 µs (see figures 10(d) and (h)), there is a very similar underlying lateral structure. This leads to the conclusion that the mean position of the (albeit weak) volume emission occurs at the same position both at RS and FS independent of the HV pulse width. For the cases of 0.2 and 1 µs HV pulse widths, a distinct extension of the emission at the left and right end of the lateral gap was found. It corresponds to the outer regions, where the curvature of the electrodes enlarges the gap distances (see figure 2(b)). This is most likely a consequence of the increased pre-ionisation, which leads to the expansion of the discharge occurrence at the edges (however, one has to keep in mind that the intensity is much lower compared to the discharge events at the RS).
To track two discharge events at the RS and subsequent FS of the same HV pulse, streak camera measurements were performed. The axial gap centre was imaged over a lateral length of about 11 mm on the entrance slit of the streak camera to track the discharge channel positions during an individual rising and subsequent FS of the HV pulse. The streak image shows the position of discharge channels in the gap centre, i.e. it does not show the spatio-temporal development along the channel, but only the centre part of it (axially averaged over 190 µm). In figure 12(a), the result is shown exemplarily for the RS and FS of a 1 µs HV pulse in 2 µs time window. The lateral profile temporally-averaged over 30 ns at each HV slope (figure 12(b)) clearly indicates that the structure features exactly the same lateral characteristics. The intensity, however, is much lower at the FS (like in the lateral profiles obtained from the iCCD images, see figures 11(a) and (b)). This occurs for all investigated HV pulse widths, i.e. on the µs time scale, the lateral filament position is fixed at the RS and subsequent FS. Most likely, this is caused by the volume memory effect, i.e. the residual space charge density in the gap [20], since this also occurs for the short HV pulse widths, where the surface memory effect is not fully established yet.

Temporal characterisation of DBDs in the multi-filament arrangement
Finally, the streak camera recordings of the discharge emission in the gap centre were used to evaluate the appearance of the discharge channels with sub-ns temporal resolution. In figure 13(a), a single-shot in a 10 ns time window is shown, where the temporal development of the central part of distinct individual discharge channels in the gap centre can clearly be distinguished. However, although the averaged streak image is blurred compared to the single-shot, the underlying lateral discharge structure discussed in the previous section is again clearly visible in figure 12(b). Note, that this streak recording was accumulated over 10 5 subsequent individual discharge events (while the profiles shown in figure 11 feature only 1000 individual discharge events). The major emission duration in the gap centre is about 3 ns (full width at half maximum) per channel, which is in accordance with measurements for a single-filament DBD [19]. This demonstrates that the discharge emission is mainly determined by the O 2 admixture to N 2 [37]. Additionally, it can be concluded from the accumulated streak image that on average, the discharge channels appear in the gap centre within less than 2 ns starting from the right side, see figure 13(b). This leads to a mean lateral 'expansion velocity' of (5.1 ± 0.3) mm ns -1 , which is in the range of the streamer propagation velocity in a single-filament arrangement (actually about two times faster). A similar lateral expansion was found in a modelling study for a DBD with a 1 mm gap [41], where the initial discharge was generated in the gap centre and expanded after the formation of the initial discharge channel. The streak camera results shown in figure 13 indicate that the lateral discharge inception in the gap occurs with only a minor delay when the breakdown voltage in the gap is reached by the fast rising applied HV. The starting point, however, is not centred, which could be a consequence Finally, the temporal discharge development in axial (vertical) direction at both the RS and FS of the HV pulse was evaluated for the different HV pulse widths under consideration. This was done using temporally-resolved iCCD images with 2 ns iCCD gate width, which were accumulated over 1000 individual discharge events at each temporal step and shifted 50 times by 1 ns resulting in a 'streak-like' image showing 50 ns of the axial discharge development displayed in figure 14. Each time step corresponds to a lateral slice averaged over 60 µm at the lateral centre of the gap (corresponding to the position '0' in figures [11][12][13]. Although the temporal resolution is far below the one needed for a proper tracking of the streamer propagation, this visualisation of the spatio-temporal discharge development can nevertheless be used to identify different breakdown regimes, which are already well-known from single-filament DBDs [19]. For all investigated HV pulse widths, the temporal discharge characteristics at the RS feature only minor differences, i.e. a fast propagating cathode-directed streamer followed by a transient glow-like discharge in the gap with an emission maximum near the anode (as for 'classical' DBDs [40,42]). This is in excellent agreement with the findings for the single-filament DBD [16,19], and corresponds well to the temporal emission profiles of the streak images in the gap centre (figure 13). From this observation, it can be concluded that discharges at the RS are barely affected by the minor variations in the pre-ionisation levels as was found for single-filament DBDs [19].
At the FS, however, significant differences in the spatiotemporal discharge development are visible. For the shortest HV pulse width of 0.2 µs, there is almost no emission in the volume (in accordance with the iCCD images in figures 10(b) and (d)). Instead, there is a re-illumination of a surface discharge near the cathode (anode at the previous RS), which features a local initial maximum and lasts tenths of ns. After approximately 20 ns, a similar emission is visible on the anode (cathode at the previous RS). This is a clear indication of the strongest possible effect of residual pre-ionisation on the subsequent discharge, which is the almost complete suppression of volume streamer propagation. As a consequence, there are no distinct discharge channels in the gap, since they are formed by the propagating cathode-directed streamer. It is known from previous investigations on single-filament DBDs that this suppression is caused by a high residual electron density (>10 12 cm -3 ), i.e. the discharge initiation does not feature volume streamers. The current in the volume is instead carried by the residual electrons [17,18]. Furthermore, this can be seen from the low but broadened discharge current peak at the FS of the 0.2 µs pulse (see figures 4(b) and (c)). This is due to the fact that the propagation of a regular cathode-directed streamer is connected to the typical steep current rise seen for the cases with lower pre-ionisation [43].
For a HV pulse width of 1 µs, which is in the time range for positive ions to cross a 1 mm gap under the conditions (gas mixture, pressure and electric field) considered here [17,44], a particular breakdown structure was found at the FS (see the FS for t pulse = 1 µs in figure 14). It features a short cathode-directed streamer starting at about 0.2 mm distance to the cathode and simultaneously a propagation of a negative (anode-directed) streamer with velocities on the order of 10 5 m s -1 (e.g. the negative streamer needed about 8 ns for 0.8 mm axial distance). Although the spatial and temporal resolutions are not as high as for the recording of the singlefilament DBDs at the same HV pulse widths, it can clearly be stated that this 'double-streamer' discharge inception is very similar to the one reported for the single-filament arrangement [17]. This specific breakdown regime was related to the residual pre-ionisation, which enables this double propagation [19]. The residual space charge carrier densities generating the electric field in the volume are not as high as for t pulse = 0.2 µs (i.e. to prevent a streamer propagation), but high enough to start both cathode-and anode-directed streamers near the cathode.
The differences between the discharge development at the RS and FS for a 10 µs HV pulse width are mainly a lower cathode-directed streamer velocity and a longer discharge emission duration at the FS compared to the RS. It is barely distinguishable due to the low temporal resolution, but still visible, see figure 14, while there is no fundamental change in the breakdown regime. This is in accordance with the findings for the single-filament DBD [16], although the reduction in streamer velocity and the increase of discharge emission duration is a little weaker (which could also be seen from the comparison of the discharge current maxima, see figure 7). Most likely, this is a consequence of the not completely fixed lateral filament positions in the multi-filament arrangement. For the symmetric HV pulse width of 50 µs, however, the spatiotemporal discharge development is the same at the RS and FS (only cathode and anode are flipped vertically). This could be a consequence of the more spatially (laterally) stable filament positions for this case (see figures 11(a) and (b) for t pulse = 50 µs, compare also the intensities at both slopes).
In conclusion, these results are the final proof that a control of the discharge inception by means of HV pulse width variation can also be achieved in a multi-filament arrangement without the spatial fixation of the filament position, which enlarges the volume pre-ionisation in a singlefilament arrangement.

Summary and outlook
In this study, a detailed comparison of pulsed-driven singleand multi-filament DBDs was performed using the same dielectric (alumina), discharge gap (1 mm), HV pulse characteristics and gas mixture (0.1 vol% O 2 in N 2 ). In the multifilament arrangement, the filaments could move freely along one lateral direction, while the filament position is fixed in the single-filament arrangement. The electrical characterisation revealed that the discharge current and the consumed electrical energy E el scale with a constant factor between the single-and the multi-filament DBDs, i.e. they scale with the number of filaments N MF in the multi-filament case. Since the thickness of the dielectric was 1 mm for the multi-filament and 0.5 mm for the single-filament, the actual scaling factor in this study is N MF /2. However, the constant relation for E el and the discharge current development as well as its peak between single-and multi-filament DBDs is a clear indication that it is possible to directly upscale the single-filament results with respect to the number of filaments in the multifilament arrangement. The distinct discharge control utilising pre-ionisation by means of asymmetric HV pulses was also reproduced in the multi-filament arrangement, especially the particular 'double-streamer' mode for HV pulse widths within the range of the ion drift time (∼1 µs) was found, too. Additionally, at the rising slopes of the HV pulse (i.e. low impact of pre-ionisation), the discharge channels ignite within less than 2 ns throughout the complete gap without a strong spatial jitter. This is a special feature of ns-pulsed DBDs, since the breakdown conditions are reached in the gap within a couple of ns due to the fast-rising applied HV pulse. Consequently, it was proven that most of the results obtained for single-filament DBDs can be directly transferred to multi-filament arrangements, i.e. the discharge control by varying the HV pulse width can most-likely be used also for application-relevant multifilament reactors.
For future investigations, it is planned to study the interactions between individual filaments in pulsed-driven multifilament DBDs, especially with respect to the surface charge dynamics. Moreover, different gas mixtures will be investigated, e.g. higher O 2 admixtures to N 2 , where discharges are spatially and temporally unstable due to the reduced preionisation effect induced by a high concentration of an electronegative admixture like O 2 or N 2 O (i.e. a gas composition in which the recombination and collisional quenching of exciting states are more pronounced).

