Abstract
Dielectric barrier discharges generated in a coaxial tip to cylinder configuration at atmospheric pressure by a 5-ns high-voltage pulse with sub-ns rise time were investigated with a fast intensified CCD camera. Different discharge characteristics were found for the breakdown during the pulse itself and in the subsequent reflections of the pulse. There is a transition from a complete diffuse regime to a breakdown in constricted channels, which finally cross the whole gap.

Visualization of a Coaxial Dielectric Barrier
Discharge Driven by a Sub-ns Rising High-Voltage Pulse and Its Reflections
Hans Höft, Tom Huiskamp, Manfred Kettlitz, and A. J. M. (Guus) Pemen
Abstract-Dielectric barrier discharges generated in a coaxial tip to cylinder configuration at atmospheric pressure by a 5-ns high-voltage pulse with sub-ns rise time were investigated with a fast intensified CCD camera. Different discharge characteristics were found for the breakdown during the pulse itself and in the subsequent reflections of the pulse. There is a transition from a complete diffuse regime to a breakdown in constricted channels, which finally cross the whole gap.
Index Terms-Atmospheric pressure plasmas, electric breakdown, pulsed power supplies.
I N NONTHERMAL plasmas created by dielectric barrier discharges (DBDs) at atmospheric pressure reactive species are produced, which are essential for applications like ozone generation or gas purification [1]. Besides the amplitude and the repetition frequency, the rise time of the pulse plays an important role for the streamer-like breakdown [2], which occurs in a DBD, too [3]. The use of very steep voltage slopes lead to higher electric fields and could therefore lead to improved plasma chemistry.
In this paper, a coaxial DBD arrangement with a sharp tungsten rod (∼25-µm tip radius) as the high-voltage (HV) electrode in a quartz tube (3-mm inner and 5-mm outer diameter, respectively) and a grounded ring electrode on the outside of the tube was used. The gas mixture of 10 vol% O 2 in N 2 was flushed through the tube from the back (open front side, HV side closed but for the gas inlet). The rod of the HV electrode was compactly connected to the HV cable and the outer ring electrode was connected to the grounded shielding of the HV cable by a metal cylinder. The 5-ns long pulse with a positive (17 ± 1) kV amplitude, 10-Hz repetition rate, and 200-ps rise time was generated by an oil-switched pulse forming line [4]. For the intensified CCD (iCCD) imaging, a fast-gated Stanford Optics 4 Picos camera was used. The dimension of the iCCD recording area is 2 × 3 mm 2 with a spatial resolution better than 10 µm. In Fig. 1(a), the scale as well as the approximate position of the quartz tube wall H. Höft and M. Kettlitz are with INP Greifswald, Greifswald 17489, Germany (e-mail: hans.hoeft@inp-greifswald.de; kettlitz@inp-greifswald.de).
T. Huiskamp and A. J. M. Pemen are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Pulsed Power Technology, Eindhoven University of Technology, Eindhoven 5600 MB, The Netherlands (e-mail: t.huiskamp@tue.nl; a.j.m.pemen@tue.nl).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TPS.2014.2309595 is indicated. The camera was focused by means of a two-lens microscope on the tip of the HV electrode (looking in the tube from the open end, focus length ∼300 µm). All images are spectrally integrated. Fig. 1(a)-(c) show the discharge emission development during the 5-ns pulse with a 1-ns iCCD gate. They are normalized with respect to the intensity maximum in (b) and are scaled logarithmically. The pulse rises at t = t 0 . In the first ns of the breakdown, an emission at the HV electrode tip and on the dielectric wall is visible. This indicates the starting phase, where the electric field is high at the wall (cathode) and the positive tip (anode). Two ns later (b) the discharge emission reaches its maximum and fades away after the HV pulse ends (c). It is obvious that there is no streamerlike propagation through the gap but a spread of a diffuse emission around the tip of the HV electrode. This is due to the fast rise of the voltage and consequently the electric field at the tip of the HV electrode. During the rise time of ∼200 ps it is not possible to create a space charge big enough to start a positive (cathode directed) streamer [5]. That is why only a diffuse emission around the tip is visible, caused by accelerated electrons toward the anode, similar to a so-called inception cloud [2]. The absence of a streamer breakdown following the inception cloud could be a consequence of the short pulse width of 5 ns in combination with the almost no secondary emission because of the dielectric cover of the cathode. It is possible that the time is not sufficient to accumulate enough space charge to reach a significant field distortion and start the propagation of the streamer, even when the Raether-Meek criterion is fulfilled [5].
Because the discharge is not matched with the pulse source and the discharge current is limited due to the dielectric barrier, it is not possible to dissipate the whole energy of the pulse in one discharge. This leads to subsequent reflections of the pulse which go through the cable and are applied again at multiples of 230 ns after the original pulse. This time was read out of the voltage measurements. When the reflected voltage reaches the tip, reignitions under different conditions occur. On one hand, the pulse is distorted due to the damping in the cable, i.e., it has a longer rise time and reduced amplitude compared with the initial pulse. On the other hand, the background gas is more ionized due to the discharge during the initial pulse. This results in a completely different behavior. In Fig. 1(d), one can see a diffuse structure with single channels originating from the tip. For the third to the fifth reflection [Fig. 1(e)-(  The maximum intensity (I max ) of the first diffuse discharge has the highest overall value; the intensities of the reflections are smaller but in the same order of magnitude (down to ∼25% of I max ). Due to the higher temporal jitter of the later reflections, the gate width was increased to 100 ns for (g)-(i).
but single constricted channels still starting from the tip and getting broader toward the cathode. Keep in mind that because of the small focus length of 300 µm, the blurring effect could be enhanced due to propagation out of the focus area. However, it is obvious that no constricted channel bridges the gap and reaches the dielectric surface. From the seventh reflection, the discharge is characterized by constricted channels with <100-µm diameter, which cross the gap completely and also show branching [left side in Fig. 1(h) and (i)]. After about ten reflections no emission (and no voltage signal) was detected; the pulse has finally faded away.

